doc/Matching.adoc, before:

= Matching Tracks
James Elliott <james@deepsymmetry.org>
:icons: font
:toc:
:experimental:
:toc-placement: preamble
:guide-top: README

// Set up support for relative links on GitHub, and give it
// usable icons for admonitions, w00t! Add more conditions
// if you need to support other environments and extensions.
ifdef::env-github[]
:outfilesuffix: .adoc
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::env-github[]

// Render section header anchors in a GitHub-compatible way when
// building the embedded user guide.
ifndef::env-github[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
endif::env-github[]

// Work around the issue with rendering callouts on GitHub.
:conum-guard-clojure: ;;
ifndef::icons[:conum-guard-clojure: ;; ;;]

Configure your triggers to respond only when particular tracks are
being played.

== Overview

As described in the <<Triggers#player-status-summary,Player Status
Summary>> discussion, the most convenient way to match a track is
using metadata obtained from the players, so Beat Link Trigger asks
the player hosting the track for details like its title, artist, and
so on. This section describes how to work with that metadata in your
triggers. If you are unable to get metadata (although as of version
0.5.0 we can't think of any situations where this might apply), you
can prepare ahead of time by hard-coding the rekordbox ID numbers in
your triggers, or you can set up a <<Players#caching-metadata,Metadata
Cache>>.

The simplest approach is to configure your triggers to Watch Any
Player, and use a custom Enabled Filter expression to activate them
when any player has loaded the track that the trigger cares about. For
example, in the following screen shot we have two triggers watching
for two specific tracks:

image:assets/MatchTracksMeta.png[Matching Tracks,884,411]

The Enabled Filter expression for the first trigger is as follows:

```clojure
(and
  (= track-title "Ember (Original Mix)")
  (= track-artist "Camo & Krooked"))
```

This activates the trigger whenever a player has loaded a track with
the specified exact title and artist. The values available for
matching are listed in the expression documentation you can scroll
through in the bottom half of the expression editor window, and other
metadata-based values include `track-comment`, `track-genre`,
`track-key`, and `track-length`. The entire
http://deepsymmetry.org/beatlink/apidocs/org/deepsymmetry/beatlink/TrackMetadata.html[`TrackMetadata`]
object is available as `track-metadata`, if you want to use
http://clojure.org/reference/java_interop[Clojure Java Interop] to
work with it.

In addition to using `=` to match entire strings, you can use
http://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/re-matches[`re-matches`] with
regular expressions for more flexible, loose matching. In addition to
the basic http://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/re-matches[Clojure
documentation], the Java
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html[Pattern]
documentation provides details of how you can construct your regular
expressions. For example, to match any track whose title begins with
"Ember" you would use an expression like this:

```clojure
(re-matches #"Ember.*" track-title)
```

Of course, you might also want the trigger to activate only when
playback reaches a particular beat. You can combine as many different
kinds of rules and logic as you need in your Enabled expression to
achieve your goals:

```clojure
(and
  (= track-title "Sunset Lover")
  (= track-artist "Petit Biscuit")
  (>= beat-number 17))
```

To have the trigger active within a specific range of beats, you can
express that in a single expression like so:

```clojure
(and
  (re-matches #"Ember.*" track-title)
  (= track-artist "Camo & Krooked")
  (<= 65 beat-number 192))
```

Including that within the trigger will enable it when a player that
has loaded that specific track, and playback is positioned anywhere
from beat 65 to 192, inclusive.

[[writing-a-playlist]]
== Writing a Playlist

Another way to take advantage of the new metadata support is to write
out a file that logs all the tracks that were played during a DJ set.
Here is a simple example of how to do that, although you can certainly
get fancier in terms of how you format the timestamps and what
information you log.

TIP: Starting with version 0.4.0, Beat Link Trigger has a built-in
<<Debugging#writing-playlists,Playlist Writer window>> that does all
this for you, and more. This discussion has been left in as an example
of the kinds of things you can do with your expression code.

Set up a Trigger that is configured to watch the Master Player, and
install the following Tracked Update Expression:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when trigger-active?  {conum-guard-clojure} <1>
  (when (not= track-metadata (:last-track @locals))  {conum-guard-clojure} <2>
    (swap! locals assoc :last-track track-metadata)  {conum-guard-clojure} <3>
    (when (some? track-metadata)  {conum-guard-clojure} <4>
      (let [log-entry (with-out-str  {conum-guard-clojure} <5>
                        (println "Timestamp:" (str (java.time.LocalDateTime/now)))
                        (println "   Artist:" track-artist)
                        (println "    Title:" track-title)
                        (println))]
       (spit "/Users/james/Desktop/playlist.txt" log-entry :append true)))))  {conum-guard-clojure} <6>
----

<1> Only proceed into the expression when there is a Master Player,
and it is currently playing a track (because we configured the Trigger
to Watch the Master Player).

<2> Only proceed deeper into the expression if we have not yet written
a playlist entry for this track metadata value (see step 3 for how
this works).

<3> Make a note of the metadata for the current track, because we are
about to write a playlist entry for it, and only want to do it once.

<4> Only proceed deeper into the expression if we actually have
metadata, because otherwise we can't create a meaningful playlist
entry.

<5> Format the lines of the playlist entry.

<6> Append the formatted lines to the specified file.

TIP: This version creates a file called `playlist.txt` on my desktop;
change the file path in the `spit` call to match where you want the
file created.

Whenever this trigger is enabled, as soon as a new track is being
played by whatever player is currently the tempo master, a new entry
will be written to the playlist log. The file content will look like
this:

```
Timestamp: 2017-03-18T18:21:43.705
   Artist: Exige & EJR
    Title: Escape ft. Zoë Phillips (Bazarro Remix)

Timestamp: 2017-03-18T18:21:56.170
   Artist: Imogen Heap
    Title: Hide and Seek (Tiësto In Search of Summer mix)

Timestamp: 2017-03-18T18:22:07.713
   Artist: Faithless
    Title: insomnia 2008 (a1 electro mix)
```

== Learning More

****

* Continue to <<Players#the-player-status-window,The Player Status Window>>
* Return to <<{guide-top}#beat-link-trigger-user-guide,Top>>

****

// Once Git finally supports it, change this to: include::Footer.adoc[]
== License

+++<a href="http://deepsymmetry.org"><img src="assets/DS-logo-bw-200-padded-left.png" align="right" alt="Deep Symmetry logo" width="216" height="123"></a>+++
Copyright © 2016&ndash;2018 http://deepsymmetry.org[Deep Symmetry, LLC]

Distributed under the
http://opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php[Eclipse Public License
1.0], the same as Clojure. By using this software in any fashion, you
are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this license. You must not
remove this notice, or any other, from this software. A copy of the
license can be found in
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/blob/master/LICENSE[LICENSE]
within this project.

=== Library Licenses

https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea],
used for communicating with the NFSv2 servers on players,
is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-2.0[GNU Library General
Public License, version 2].

The http://kaitai.io[Kaitai Struct] Java runtime, used for parsing
rekordbox exports and media analysis files, is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT[MIT License].

Commit message:

Start documenting the Show interface.

doc/Matching.adoc, after:

= Matching Tracks
James Elliott <james@deepsymmetry.org>
:icons: font
:toc:
:experimental:
:toc-placement: preamble
:guide-top: README

// Set up support for relative links on GitHub, and give it
// usable icons for admonitions, w00t! Add more conditions
// if you need to support other environments and extensions.
ifdef::env-github[]
:outfilesuffix: .adoc
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::env-github[]

// Render section header anchors in a GitHub-compatible way when
// building the embedded user guide.
ifndef::env-github[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
endif::env-github[]

// Work around the issue with rendering callouts on GitHub.
:conum-guard-clojure: ;;
ifndef::icons[:conum-guard-clojure: ;; ;;]

Configure your triggers to respond only when particular tracks are
being played.

== Overview

As described in the <<Triggers#player-status-summary,Player Status
Summary>> discussion, the most convenient way to match a track is
using metadata obtained from the players, so Beat Link Trigger asks
the player hosting the track for details like its title, artist, and
so on. This section describes how to work with that metadata in your
triggers.

TIP: Rather than using the low-level approach described in this
section, you will almost always want to use the new, convenient
<<Shows#shows,Show interface>> introduced in version 0.5. It gives you
an incredibly powerful graphical interface for matching tracks and
defining cues on beat ranges within those tracks.

If, for some reason, you don't want to use the Show interface, and you
are unable to get metadata (although as of version 0.5.0 we can't
think of any situations where this might apply), you can prepare ahead
of time by hard-coding the rekordbox ID numbers in your triggers, or
you can set up a <<Players#caching-metadata,Metadata Cache>>.

== Manual Track Matching

The simplest approach is to configure your triggers to Watch Any
Player, and use a custom Enabled Filter expression to activate them
when any player has loaded the track that the trigger cares about. For
example, in the following screen shot we have two triggers watching
for two specific tracks:

image:assets/MatchTracksMeta.png[Matching Tracks,884,411]

The Enabled Filter expression for the first trigger is as follows:

```clojure
(and
  (= track-title "Ember (Original Mix)")
  (= track-artist "Camo & Krooked"))
```

This activates the trigger whenever a player has loaded a track with
the specified exact title and artist. The values available for
matching are listed in the expression documentation you can scroll
through in the bottom half of the expression editor window, and other
metadata-based values include `track-comment`, `track-genre`,
`track-key`, and `track-length`. The entire
http://deepsymmetry.org/beatlink/apidocs/org/deepsymmetry/beatlink/TrackMetadata.html[`TrackMetadata`]
object is available as `track-metadata`, if you want to use
http://clojure.org/reference/java_interop[Clojure Java Interop] to
work with it.

In addition to using `=` to match entire strings, you can use
http://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/re-matches[`re-matches`] with
regular expressions for more flexible, loose matching. In addition to
the basic http://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/re-matches[Clojure
documentation], the Java
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html[Pattern]
documentation provides details of how you can construct your regular
expressions. For example, to match any track whose title begins with
"Ember" you would use an expression like this:

```clojure
(re-matches #"Ember.*" track-title)
```

Of course, you might also want the trigger to activate only when
playback reaches a particular beat. You can combine as many different
kinds of rules and logic as you need in your Enabled expression to
achieve your goals:

```clojure
(and
  (= track-title "Sunset Lover")
  (= track-artist "Petit Biscuit")
  (>= beat-number 17))
```

To have the trigger active within a specific range of beats, you can
express that in a single expression like so:

```clojure
(and
  (re-matches #"Ember.*" track-title)
  (= track-artist "Camo & Krooked")
  (<= 65 beat-number 192))
```

Including that within the trigger will enable it when a player that
has loaded that specific track, and playback is positioned anywhere
from beat 65 to 192, inclusive.

[[writing-a-playlist]]
== Writing a Playlist

Another way to take advantage of metadata support is to write out a
file that logs all the tracks that were played during a DJ set. Here
is a simple example of how to do that, although you can certainly get
fancier in terms of how you format the timestamps and what information
you log.

TIP: Starting with version 0.4.0, Beat Link Trigger has a built-in
<<Debugging#writing-playlists,Playlist Writer window>> that does all
this for you, and more. This discussion has been left in as an example
of the kinds of things you can do with your expression code.

Set up a Trigger that is configured to watch the Master Player, and
install the following Tracked Update Expression:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when trigger-active?  {conum-guard-clojure} <1>
  (when (not= track-metadata (:last-track @locals))  {conum-guard-clojure} <2>
    (swap! locals assoc :last-track track-metadata)  {conum-guard-clojure} <3>
    (when (some? track-metadata)  {conum-guard-clojure} <4>
      (let [log-entry (with-out-str  {conum-guard-clojure} <5>
                        (println "Timestamp:" (str (java.time.LocalDateTime/now)))
                        (println "   Artist:" track-artist)
                        (println "    Title:" track-title)
                        (println))]
       (spit "/Users/james/Desktop/playlist.txt" log-entry :append true)))))  {conum-guard-clojure} <6>
----

<1> Only proceed into the expression when there is a Master Player,
and it is currently playing a track (because we configured the Trigger
to Watch the Master Player).

<2> Only proceed deeper into the expression if we have not yet written
a playlist entry for this track metadata value (see step 3 for how
this works).

<3> Make a note of the metadata for the current track, because we are
about to write a playlist entry for it, and only want to do it once.

<4> Only proceed deeper into the expression if we actually have
metadata, because otherwise we can't create a meaningful playlist
entry.

<5> Format the lines of the playlist entry.

<6> Append the formatted lines to the specified file.

TIP: This version creates a file called `playlist.txt` on my desktop;
change the file path in the `spit` call to match where you want the
file created.

Whenever this trigger is enabled, as soon as a new track is being
played by whatever player is currently the tempo master, a new entry
will be written to the playlist log. The file content will look like
this:

```
Timestamp: 2017-03-18T18:21:43.705
   Artist: Exige & EJR
    Title: Escape ft. Zoë Phillips (Bazarro Remix)

Timestamp: 2017-03-18T18:21:56.170
   Artist: Imogen Heap
    Title: Hide and Seek (Tiësto In Search of Summer mix)

Timestamp: 2017-03-18T18:22:07.713
   Artist: Faithless
    Title: insomnia 2008 (a1 electro mix)
```

== Learning More

****

* Continue to <<Players#the-player-status-window,The Player Status Window>>
* Return to <<{guide-top}#beat-link-trigger-user-guide,Top>>

****

// Once Git finally supports it, change this to: include::Footer.adoc[]
== License

+++<a href="http://deepsymmetry.org"><img src="assets/DS-logo-bw-200-padded-left.png" align="right" alt="Deep Symmetry logo" width="216" height="123"></a>+++
Copyright © 2016&ndash;2019 http://deepsymmetry.org[Deep Symmetry, LLC]

Distributed under the
http://opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php[Eclipse Public License
1.0], the same as Clojure. By using this software in any fashion, you
are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this license. You must not
remove this notice, or any other, from this software. A copy of the
license can be found in
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/blob/master/LICENSE[LICENSE]
within this project.

=== Library Licenses

https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea],
used for communicating with the NFSv2 servers on players,
is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-2.0[GNU Library General
Public License, version 2].

The http://kaitai.io[Kaitai Struct] Java runtime, used for parsing
rekordbox exports and media analysis files, is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT[MIT License].
