= Beat Link Trigger User Guide
James Elliott <james@deepsymmetry.org>
:icons: font
:experimental:

// Set up support for relative links on GitHub; add more conditions
// if you need to support other environments and extensions.
ifdef::env-github[:outfilesuffix: .adoc]

== Startup

When you first open Beat Link Trigger, it tries to find the Pro DJ
Link devices that you want it to monitor. If it can't find any, after
ten seconds you will see this window:

image:assets/NoDevices.png[No devices found]

If you were expecting to find devices, double-check that they are
powered on, and properly networked with your computer (and that any
hub or wireless router you are using is also properly turned on and
configured). Then click kbd:[Try Again] to try again.

If you just wanted to work on setting up your triggers or expressions,
and don't have any actual players handy, you can also click
kbd:[Continue Offline] to work in an offline mode. Your triggers won't
actually fire, but you can do all the configuration and editing that
you need.

Once a device is found, or you choose to continue offline, the Trigger
window opens, in the same configuration that you left it the last time
you used the program.

== Triggers

Each row in the Trigger window defines a single trigger, which watches
a player or category of players, and can be configured to send
different messages in response to what the player is doing.

If this is the first time you have opened Beat Link Trigger, you will
see just one trigger containing default options.

image:assets/FirstTrigger.png[First Trigger, 848]

To create additional triggers you can choose `New Trigger` in the
`Triggers` menu, or type kbd:[⌘+T] (on the Mac) or kbd:[Ctrl+T] (on
other platforms). You can get back to this default state at any time
by choosing `Clear Triggers` in the `Triggers` menu.

image:assets/TriggersMenu.png[Triggers Menu, 341]

Here are the sections of a trigger, and how they work:

=== Comment

The Comment field is a free-form text area you can use to describe the
purpose of the trigger, to remind you when you later come back to it.
Apart from the trigger index, a number by which Beat Link Trigger
identifies the trigger when it is reporting errors or naming related
windows (like expression editors, described <<expressions,below>>),
the comment takes up the entire width of the first line of the trigger
row.

=== Watch Menu

The Watch menu tells the trigger what player(s) it should pay
attention to. It lets you choose Player&nbsp;1 through Player&nbsp;4,
as well as two dynamic choices.

image:assets/WatchMenu.png[Watch Menu, 810]

NOTE: If a player is chosen which is not currently present on the
network, the player will be reported “not found”, and the trigger will
not operate until either the player reappears, or a different player
is chosen. Of course when you are working in Offline mode, all players
will be missing and the trigger will simply say “Offline”.

Any Player:: If you choose to watch Any Player, then just as you would
expect, the trigger will respond to activity on any player in the
network. It will track whatever player seems “best” at the moment: If
there is an Enabled condition which causes the trigger to be enabled
for some players and not for others, it will watch the players that
enable it. Within that group, if some players are playing and others
are not, it will watch the ones that are playing. Finally, if there
are still multiple players to choose between, it will pick the
lowest-numbered one.

Master Player:: If you choose to watch the Master Player, the trigger
will focus on whichever player is the current Tempo (sync) Master.

Right after the Watch menu, the trigger row displays the player number
and latest status received from the watched player, if one was found.

=== MIDI Output Menu

The MIDI Output Menu lets you choose the MIDI device to which the
trigger will send messages. It will show all MIDI outputs currently
available on your system.

image:assets/MidiMenu.png[MIDI Output Menu, 810]

NOTE: If a MIDI Output is chosen which is no longer available on the
system (as shown in trigger 3 above), it will remain in that row's
menu, but the Enabled section of the trigger will be replaced with the
message “Not found.” Once the output reappears, or a different output
is chosen, the trigger will become operational again.

=== Message Menu

The Message Menu determines what kind of MIDI message is sent by the
trigger.

image:assets/MessageMenu.png[Message Menu, 814]

Note:: With this setting, the trigger sends a Note On message, with
velocity 127 and the note number shown to the right of the menu, when
the watched player starts playing (as long as the trigger is enabled),
and a Note Off message when the watched player stops or the trigger is
disabled.

CC:: With this setting, the trigger sends a Control Change message,
with value 127 and the controller number shown to the right of the
menu, when the watched player starts playing (as long as the trigger
is enabled), and sends a CC with value 0 when the player stops or the
trigger is disabled.

Clock:: With this setting, the trigger sends MIDI Beat Clock messages
whenever the trigger is enabled, to synchronize the tempo of the
target device with the tempo reported by the watched player. If the
check box to the right of the menu is checked, it will either send a
Start or Continue message (as chosen in the following menu) when the
watched player starts playing, and if the Stop box is checked, it will
send a Stop message when the watched player stops.

Custom:: When this option is chosen, the trigger will not send any
messages on its own, and it is up to you to send them in code you
write in the trigger expressions, as described <<expressions,below>>.
This gives you the most flexibility because in addition to MIDI
messages, you can send arbitrary UDP packets, HTTP requests, or
whatever you might need.

=== Note/Controller Spinner

Found immediately to the right of the Message Menu (unless MIDI Beat
Clock is chosen as the Message type), this field lets you set the MIDI
note number used for Note messages, or the controller number used for
Control Change messages. The value is also available to your trigger
expressions if they want to use it.

=== Channel Spinner

For triggers sending anything but MIDI Beat Clock, this lets you
specify the MIDI channel on which messages are sent.

=== Enabled Menu

The Enabled menu controls when the trigger will respond to the watched
player starting or stopping playback.

image:assets/EnabledMenu.png[Enabled Menu, 814]

Always:: With this setting, the trigger is enabled until you disable
it.

Never:: With this setting, the trigger is disabled until you re-enable
it.

On-Air:: With this setting, the trigger is enabled whenever the
watched player reports that it is On the Air. (For that to work, the
player must be connected to a Nexus mixer, and must have the feature
turned on.)

Custom:: With this setting, the trigger is controlled by an Enabled
Filter expression that you write yourself. Whenever a status update is
received from any watched player, your expression is called. If it
returns a `true` value, the trigger will be enabled. This lets you
apply sophisticated logic, like enabling the trigger when a particular
track number is loaded into the player, and it has reached a
particular beat during playback. Expressions are further explained
<<expressions,below>>. If you choose Custom and have not yet written
an Enabled Filter expression, the expression editor will be opened to
let you do that.

=== Trigger Status

To the right of the Enabled menu there is a Trigger Status indicator
which shows whether the trigger is currently enabled (a green circle)
or disabled (a red circle with a slash). If the player is currently
playing, there is a filled circle inside the enabled circle:

[width="50%",cols=".^,^.^",options="header"]
|===
|State
|Indicator

|Disabled, Not Playing
|image:assets/Disabled.png[Disabled]

|Enabled, Not Playing
|image:assets/Enabled.png[Enabled]

|Disabled, Playing
|image:assets/DisabledPlaying.png[Disabled, Playing]

|Enabled, Playing
|image:assets/EnabledPlaying.png[Enabled, Playing]

|===

=== Context Menu

Each trigger row has a context menu attached to it, which can be
accessed by right-clicking (or control-clicking) anywhere on the row's
background, but you can also open the context menu with a regular
mouse click on the button with a gear icon in it. Most of the menu is
devoted to editing various expressions to customize the trigger, as
described <<expressions,below>>. The gear icon next to an expression
will be filled in if that expression has a value, and the gear in the
button will be filled in if any expression associated with the trigger
has a value.

image:assets/ContextMenu.png[Context Menu, 254]

Below the expression-related options, you can export the current
trigger configuration to a text file which can be imported into a
different trigger or shared with colleagues, and you can delete the
trigger, unless it is the only remaining trigger in the window.

== Expressions

A great deal of the power of Beat Link Trigger is in what you can do
with custom expressions. The user interface lets you configure
triggers to send simple MIDI messages in response to basic state
changes, but with expressions you can write your own logic to
determine when the trigger should be enabled, using all of the
information provided by the DJ Link protocol, and you can even send
other kinds of messages locally or over the network to integrate with
systems that do not respond to MIDI.

NOTE: Expressions are written in http://clojure.org[Clojure], the same
language that was used to write Beat Link Trigger. When you write one,
it gets compiled to Java byte-code and loaded, essentially becoming
part of Beat Link Trigger as if it had been there all along. So you
have access to the full power of the language and Java environment,
and can do anything you need to. But you will need to learn a little
Clojure to do it. http://www.tryclj.com[Try Clojure] is a five-minute
online introduction that is a great starting point. Please give it a
try!

The expression you are first likely to want to use is the Enabled
Filter, which is found in each trigger's context menu. In fact, as
soon as you set a trigger's Enabled menu to Custom, Beat Link Triggger
will pop open the editor for that expression for you, if you have not
yet created it:

image:assets/Editor.png[Enabled Filter Editor, 880]

The editor window for each type of expression provides documentation
about the purpose of the expression and guidance on how to write it.
Most expression types have a variety of values that are available to
help you in writing the expression, and those are described and
explained in the help section as well.

Reading through the documentation, we see that the Enabled filter
should return a `true` value to enable the filter, and has access to a
lot of information about the watched player that it can use to decide.
Suppose we want the trigger to be enabled when the player has track
number 5 loaded, and has reached the fourth bar of music (which starts
on beat 17, since there are four beats per bar, and the track starts
with beat 1). Armed with the Clojure knowledge gained from our
http://www.tryclj.com[Try Clojure] detour, and the help text in the
editor window, we come up with the following expression:

image:assets/EnabledExample.png[Enabled Example, 609]

Try entering that as the Enabled Filter expression for your filter,
set the Enabled menu to Custom, and watch the Trigger Status indicator
as you load and play different tracks to confirm that it works!

TIP: As you use the editor, you will notice that it provides syntax
coloring and parenthesis-matching help. But if you end up making a
mistake in your expression, Beat Link Trigger will likely report an
compilation error when you click kbd:[Update], and you can check the
<<logs,log>> for a more detailed stack trace. You can try googling for
information about the error, or looking in the Clojure
http://clojuredocs.org[documentation], but you can also ask for help
in the Beat Link Trigger
https://gitter.im/brunchboy/beat-link-trigger[Gitter chat room].

=== Global Expressions

The Triggers menu at the top of the window lets you define two
expressions that can manage values you want to make available to all
your other expressions. To make that convenient, all expressions have
access to a Clojure http://clojure.org/reference/atoms[atom] named
`globals` that is shared with all other expressions, so that is a
great place to put things for them to find. The atom starts out
holding an empty
http://clojure.org/reference/data_structures#Maps[map], which allows
you to add key/value pairs to organize the information you want to
share across expressions.

Global Setup Expression:: This is run when Beat Link Trigger starts
up, or when you open a new Trigger file, so it runs before any of your
individual trigger expressions. Here is a fairly sophisticated example that
creates a
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/DatagramSocket.html[DatagramSocket]
for sending a remote trigger command to the ChamSys MagicQ lighting
control software using its
https://secure.chamsys.co.uk/help/documentation/magicq/ch31.html[remote
protocol]:
+
```clojure
(let [chamsys-address (InetSocketAddress.
                       (InetAddress/getByName "172.16.42.255") 6553)
      trigger-on (byte-array (map int "71,1H"))
      trigger-off (byte-array (map int "71,0H"))]
  (swap! globals assoc
         :chamsys-socket (DatagramSocket.)
         :chamsys-on (DatagramPacket. trigger-on (count trigger-on)
                                      chamsys-address)
         :chamsys-off (DatagramPacket. trigger-off (count trigger-off)
                                      chamsys-address)))
```
+
This begins with a `let` binding which sets up some values that will
be used later in the expression. `chamsys-address` gets set to a
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/SocketAddress.html[SocketAddress]
representing port 6553 (the default port used by MagicQ) on the
broadcast address for the Deep Symmetry show network (you will need to
use the value appropriate for your own newtork). `trigger-on` and
`trigger-off` are arrays of bytes containing the characters that make
up the commands for turning a MagicQ remote programming trigger on and
off.
+
Those values are then used in the http://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.core-api.html#clojure.core/swap![`swap!`]
call, which is the way you modify a Clojure atom. In this case we are modifying the map in `globals` by
using http://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.core-api.html#clojure.core/assoc[`assoc`]
to add some new key-value pairs to it: `:chamsys-socket`
gets associated with a newly-allocated
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/DatagramSocket.html[DatagramSocket]
that triggers will be able to use for sending UDP messages to MagicQ,
and the actual command packets are created as
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/DatagramPacket.html[DatagramPacket]
objects preconfigured with the correct command bytes and destination
address and port, in `:chamsys-on` and `:chamsys-off`.
+
The Beat Expression below shows how these globals are actually used.

Global Shutdown Expression:: This is run when Beat Link Trigger is
exiting, or before it opens a new Trigger file (or when you choose to
delete all triggers). It gives you a chance to close any connections
and release any system resources that you allocated in your Global
Setup Expression. Here is how we would do that for the ChamSys MagicQ
example we started above:
+
```clojure
(.close (:chamsys-socket @globals))
```
+

This simply looks up the `DatagramSocket` that was created in the
setup expression, and closes it. There is no need to remove the
key/value pairs themselves from the `globals` atom

== Logs

== Inspecting Locals and Globals

== Saving and Loading

=== Exporting and Importing Triggers
