doc/Shows.adoc, before:

= Shows
James Elliott <james@deepsymmetry.org>
:icons: font
:toc:
:experimental:
:toc-placement: preamble
:toclevels: 3
:guide-top: README

// Set up support for relative links on GitHub, and give it
// usable icons for admonitions, w00t! Add more conditions
// if you need to support other environments and extensions.
ifdef::env-github[]
:outfilesuffix: .adoc
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::env-github[]

// Render section header anchors in a GitHub-compatible way when
// building the embedded user guide.
ifndef::env-github[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
endif::env-github[]

Watch for beat ranges of specific tracks to be played, and send things
like MIDI or OSC messages in response.

== Overview

This section needs to be written, and a lot of new screen shots taken!

== Learning More

****

* Continue to <<Link#working-with-ableton-link,Working with Ableton Link>>
* Return to <<{guide-top}#beat-link-trigger-user-guide,Top>>

****

// Once Git finally supports it, change this to: include::Footer.adoc[]
== License

+++<a href="http://deepsymmetry.org"><img src="assets/DS-logo-bw-200-padded-left.png" align="right" alt="Deep Symmetry logo" width="216" height="123"></a>+++
Copyright © 2016&ndash;2019 http://deepsymmetry.org[Deep Symmetry, LLC]

Distributed under the
http://opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php[Eclipse Public License
1.0], the same as Clojure. By using this software in any fashion, you
are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this license. You must not
remove this notice, or any other, from this software. A copy of the
license can be found in
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/blob/master/LICENSE[LICENSE]
within this project.

=== Library Licenses

https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea],
used for communicating with the NFSv2 servers on players,
is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-2.0[GNU Library General
Public License, version 2].

The http://kaitai.io[Kaitai Struct] Java runtime, used for parsing
rekordbox exports and media analysis files, is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT[MIT License].

Commit message:

Working on Show Interface guide.
Also updating other screen shots affected by 0.5.

doc/Shows.adoc, after:

= Shows
James Elliott <james@deepsymmetry.org>
:icons: font
:toc:
:experimental:
:toc-placement: preamble
:toclevels: 3
:guide-top: README

// Set up support for relative links on GitHub, and give it
// usable icons for admonitions, w00t! Add more conditions
// if you need to support other environments and extensions.
ifdef::env-github[]
:outfilesuffix: .adoc
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::env-github[]

// Render section header anchors in a GitHub-compatible way when
// building the embedded user guide.
ifndef::env-github[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
endif::env-github[]

Watch for beat ranges of specific tracks to be played, and send things
like MIDI or OSC messages in response.

== Overview

Version 0.5 of Beat Link Trigger introduced a major new set of user
interface features called the Show interface, which make it far easier
to match tracks, and cause things to happen when particular beat
ranges in those tracks are played.

All of these things could be done before the Show interface, using
basic Triggers, but they would involve writing a great many custom
Expressions to match the tracks and watch for the right beats, and
would be very tedious to figure out.

Also, there is a practical limit to how many Triggers you can have in
your file, because each one gets considered in sequence whenever a
packet is received from a player. The limit may be a few dozen, or
many more, but eventually your CPU will be get busy just evaluating
triggers. The Show interface doesn't have this limitation--it uses a
sophisticated and efficient mechanism for recognizing tracks, and
allows you to add thousands of tracks to your shows. Tracks in a show
will not put any load on your CPU until they are actually loaded in a
player.

== Creating a Show

_This section needs to be written, and a lot of new screen shots
taken!_

== Learning More

****

* Continue to <<Link#working-with-ableton-link,Working with Ableton Link>>
* Return to <<{guide-top}#beat-link-trigger-user-guide,Top>>

****

// Once Git finally supports it, change this to: include::Footer.adoc[]
== License

+++<a href="http://deepsymmetry.org"><img src="assets/DS-logo-bw-200-padded-left.png" align="right" alt="Deep Symmetry logo" width="216" height="123"></a>+++
Copyright © 2016&ndash;2019 http://deepsymmetry.org[Deep Symmetry, LLC]

Distributed under the
http://opensource.org/licenses/eclipse-1.0.php[Eclipse Public License
1.0], the same as Clojure. By using this software in any fashion, you
are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this license. You must not
remove this notice, or any other, from this software. A copy of the
license can be found in
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/blob/master/LICENSE[LICENSE]
within this project.

=== Library Licenses

https://sourceforge.net/projects/remotetea/[Remote Tea],
used for communicating with the NFSv2 servers on players,
is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/LGPL-2.0[GNU Library General
Public License, version 2].

The http://kaitai.io[Kaitai Struct] Java runtime, used for parsing
rekordbox exports and media analysis files, is licensed under the
https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT[MIT License].
