doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Debugging.adoc, before:

= Debugging and Sharing
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Beat Link Trigger offers a few mechanisms to help you understand how
your triggers are (or are not) working, and to save and restore
versions of them, or share them with friends and colleagues (or on the
https://deep-symmetry.zulipchat.com/join/lp5i6yolkay7erzjzodx365q/[Zulip
stream] or
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/wiki[project Wiki]
to either get help from others, or share and show them off). +++<img
src="_images/HelpMenu.png" width="250" height="205" alt="Help Menu"
style="float:right"/>+++

Help resources can be found in the menu:Help[] menu, along with an
embedded copy of this User Guide, which can be used even if you are
not connected to the Internet (although links to other sites will not
work in that case).

There’s no way for the author to know how many people are using the
the program, or where they are, unless they choose to contact him.
Many people have (especially on the Zulip stream), but if you have
not, and would like to say hello and share how you are using Beat
Link Trigger, it would be greatly appreciated! You can use
menu:Help[Send User Greeting (email)] to make it easy.

[[logs]]
== Logs

When Beat Link Trigger is running it reports events to a log file. As
noted above, this includes full stack traces for compilation problems
when you try to save an expression that isn’t quite right. If a
problem occurs while trying to run your expression later, that will
end up in the log too. So it can be a useful place to look when things
are not working the way you expect. You can find the log file by choosing
menu:Help[Open Logs Folder].

Each time you launch Beat Link Trigger it creates a new log folder in
a temporary directory, so that they can be cleaned up automatically
sometime after it exits. It cycles through log files and limits their
maximum length, which can be important if an error is being logged
each time a packet comes in because of a problematic Enabled Filter
expression.

Even if things are not crashing, you might want to log your own
information to get a better understanding of what is happening inside
one of your expressions. Beat Link Trigger uses
https://github.com/ptaoussanis/timbre[timbre] to perform its logging,
and so can you.

For example, if you are trying to figure out exactly what you are
receiving in your Beat expression, you could add this as its first
line:

```clojure
(timbre/info "Received beat" status "master?" tempo-master?)
```

Suddenly your logs will be growing steadily, filling with lines like these:

```
2016-Jun-05 00:12:10 Alacrity.local INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] -
  Received beat Beat: Device 2, name: CDJ-2000nexus, pitch: +0.00%,
  track BPM: 126.0, effective BPM: 126.0, beat within bar: 4 master? true
2016-Jun-05 00:12:11 Alacrity.local INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] -
  Received beat Beat: Device 33, name: DJM-2000nexus, pitch: +0.00%,
  track BPM: 126.0, effective BPM: 126.0, beat within bar: 1 master? false
```

[[reporting-issues]]
== Reporting Issues

If you run into trouble and it seems likely the problem is in Beat
Link Trigger itself rather than one of your own expressions, you can
use menu:Help[Report Issue (email)] to send an email to Deep Symmetry
asking for help. The message will start out populated with some
information about the version of Beat Link Trigger you are running,
along with the Java version and operating system, but the more details
you can provide in the initial report (along with relevant logs), the
more likely we will be able to figure out what is going on.

The program may also offer to compose an issue pre-filled with details
when it encounters unexpected messages sent by CDJs it is talking to.

If the problem turns out to be trickier than can be understood from
just logs, follow-up questions and experimentation may be needed. In
such cases
https://blog.fastthread.io/2016/06/06/how-to-take-thread-dumps-7-options/[thread
dumps] are often a valuable next step.

[[wireshark]]
=== Wireshark Captures

If you are helping investigate an issue involving communication with
the DJ Link gear (especially when new products are released), it will
be necessary for you to include a packet capture of what was happening
on the network when you saw the problem or tried to use the gear. For
that, download and install https://www.wireshark.org[Wireshark], then
perform a capture and include the file in your report.

To make it easier to understand how the capture relates to an issue
you are seeing, it is even better if you can include a movie of your
screen showing when the problem happens, and also include the precise
timestamp in that video. The easiest way to have timestamps appear in
your video is to download and open the
link:{attachmentsdir}/Timestamp.bls[Timestamp show] that is embedded
in this guide, and position its window near the part of your screen
where you are capturing the issue. The Timestamp show looks like this:

image:TimestampShow.png[Timestamp Show,477,244]

The timestamps it displays are identical to the ones that Wireshark
writes in the capture file, which makes it possible to correlate
things happening on the screen with packets in the capture.

If there is room to have the Wireshark capture window appear in your
video also, great! That can be very helpful, but the timestamp window
is easier to read at small movie sizes.

[NOTE]
====
In case you are curious, the code that implements this Timestamp show
is very short:

.Global Setup Expression
[source,clojure]
----
(show/require-version show "0.5.5")  ;; <1>
(swap! globals assoc :running true)  ;; <2>
(let [formatter (java.text.SimpleDateFormat. "HH:mm:ss.SSS")
      timestamp (seesaw/label :text "00:00:00.0000"
                              :halign :center :valign :center
                              :font "DSEG7 Classic-40")]
  (show/block-tracks show timestamp)  ;; <3>
  (future  ;; <4>
    (loop []
      (seesaw/invoke-now
        (seesaw/value! timestamp (.format formatter (java.util.Date.))))
      (Thread/sleep 33)
      (when (:running @globals) (recur)))))
----

<1> Check that the version of BLT is new enough for this show to work.

<2> Set a `:running` flag that we can use to stop the animation thread
(below).

<3> Update the show window to reflect that it does not use tracks,
also replacing the normal content of the window with the big timestamp
label.

<4> Create a background animation thread to update the label 30 times
each second.

And when the window closes, we tell the animation thread to stop by
removing the `:running` flag:

.Global Shutdown Expression
[source,clojure]
----
(swap! globals dissoc :running)
----

Since those are the only things in the show, the file is only 560
bytes long.
====

=== GitHub Issues

You can also skip the email and open an
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/issues[Issue]
directly on the project’s GitHub page.

In any case, even if Deep Symmetry is unable to investigate your
report immediately (since this is free software developed during our
spare time), we very much appreciate you taking the effort to send it.

[[inspecting]]
== Inspecting Locals and Globals

In addition to logging values to the log file, you can get a glimpse
at what your expressions are up to by opening an inspector window on
the Expression Globals or a particular trigger’s Expression Locals.
The first is done by choosing menu:Triggers[Inspect Expression
Globals]. This opens a window showing you all the keys and values that
have been created in the `globals` atom shared by all triggers. Here
is what that looks like after the example code shown in the
<<Expressions_TriggerGlobal.adoc#,Global Expressions section>> has run:

image:ExpressionGlobals.png[Expression Globals,872,462]

The inspector is a little messy, but right away you can see the three
keys we created, and the corresponding Java objects stored under them.
by clicking next to the blue diamond in the lower pane, you can expand
each entry and dive down into the fields and values that make it up,
which can be quite a powerful way to explore the objects.

Similarly, the locals for a trigger can be inspected by choosing
menu:Inspect Expression Locals[] from that trigger’s context menu.
Here’s the result of drilling down a little into the `:resolume` OSC
client object created in that example’s trigger:

image:ExpressionLocals.png[Expression Locals,789,626]

[[saving-and-loading]]
== Saving and Loading

The entire trigger configuration can be saved to a text file by
choosing menu:File[Save to File]. That file can be sent to another
machine, shared with a colleague, or just kept around for future use
after you are done with a different project. As you would expect,
menu:File[Load from File] replaces the current trigger configuration
with one loaded from a save file.

[CAUTION]
====

Beat Link Trigger automatically saves your triggers when you exit the
program normally. If you shut down your computer, or otherwise
force-quit the Beat Link Trigger process, it may not have the chance
to do this, and you might lose work. If you are concerned about that
happening, you can periodically manually save your current trigger
configuration by choosing menu:File[Save].

image:Save.png[Save option,189,156]

====

[[exporting-and-importing]]
=== Exporting and Importing Triggers

As mentioned in the <<Triggers.adoc#context-menu,Triggers Context Menu>>
section, individual triggers can be exported on their own, and
imported into other trigger configurations.

[[writing-playlists]]
== Writing Playlists

If you are in a situation where it is important to keep detailed
records of the music being played (for example, a radio station that
needs to pay royalties), the built in Playlist Writer can help. It
builds on the ideas described in the
<<Matching.adoc#writing-a-playlist,Matching Tracks Manually>> section
to give you a robust, convenient solution.

Start by choosing menu:File[Write Playlist]. This will bring up the
Playlist Writer window.

image:PlaylistWriter.png[Playlist Writer,460,313]

You can configure how long a track needs to be played for before it
gets included in the playlist (the default is ten seconds) and whether
you want to ignore players that are not reporting themselves as being
on the air (very convenient to ignore DJs pre-screening tracks, as
long as you are using a DJM mixer that supports this feature, and the
players are configured and connected properly).

You can also configure how many minutes can pass with no player
playing anything before a new playlist file is created when another
track is played. The default for this is 30 minutes. When creating new
files because this New Playlist Threshold has been exceeded, the file
names have timestamps added to them as described in the
<<#automatically-starting,next section>>.

Once everything is set the way you want it, click kbd:[Start] and you
will be prompted to choose where to save the file. Once you have done
that, the window updates to show you that the playlist is being written:

image:PlaylistWriterActive.png[Playlist Writer active,460,313]

From this point on, all tracks that play longer than your configured
minimum time will be written to the playlist, in Comma-Separated Value
format (for convenient use in spreadsheet programs). The playlist will
include track titles, artists, albums (when this information is
available), as well as the player they were played on, the source
player and media type, when they started and stopped playing, and the
total time they played.

When you are done recording the playlist you can either click kbd:[Stop]
or close the window, and the file will be closed out.

[[automatically-starting]]
=== Automatically Starting the Playlist Writer

If you want to be sure that playlsits are always being written, you
can add a line to your Came Online Expression that starts the playlist
writer as soon as Beat Link Trigger is connected to a DJ Link network.
Call the function `playlist-writer/write-playlist` with three
arguments, `folder` (which determines the directory in which the
playlist should be written), `prefix` (which specifies the first part
of the playlist's filename), and `append?` which controls what happens
if the file already exists.

The filename will be built by adding ".csv" after `prefix`. If a file
by that name already exists in the specified `folder`, then if
`append?` is true, the existing file will be used, and new tracks will
be added to the end. If the file exists and `append?` is false, then a
timestamp will be added in between the prefix and the ".csv" extension
so that a new playlist file will always be created.

For example, consider the following code:

[source,clojure]
----
(playlist-writer/write-playlist "/Users/james/playlists" "playlist" false)
----

With this in the Came Online Expression, whenever BLT establishes
connection to a DJ Link network, a new playlist will be created in the
directory `/Users/james/playlists/`. If there is not already such a
file present, it will be called `/Users/james/playlists/playlist.csv`.
If that file already exists, then a file with a name like
`/Users/james/playlists/playlist_2022_02_20T17_16_19.csv` will be
created, using the year, month, day, hour, minute, and second to
ensure it is unique.

Alternately, a line like the following would always use the file
`/tmp/played.csv`, creating it and writing the header line if it did
not exist, and otherwise just adding new tracks to the end of the
file:

[source,clojure]
----
(playlist-writer/write-playlist "/tmp" "played" true)
----


[[advanced-coding]]
== Advanced Coding

The built in code editor gives you some basic help with writing
Clojure, such as syntax coloring and parenthesis matching, but if you
are going to write more than a few lines, or want help learning
Clojure and testing ideas, you are much better off using a
full-featured Clojure development environment, like
https://cursive-ide.com[Cursive] or (if you already use the Emacs text
editor) https://cider.mx[CIDER].

Much of the power of these environments comes from the way they
interact with the live, running Clojure environment so that you can
benefit from code-completion assistance, documentation popups, and
even dive into the source code of your functions and the ones that
make up Beat Link Trigger itself, making it easy to try things out,
update your functions, examine values, and try again. This kind of
instant feedback leads to a fertile learning experience and incredibly
productive development workflow centered around the Clojure “REPL”
(read-eval-print loop).

Beat Link Trigger has features to support working in these editors. At
a basic level, the built-in code editor can save your expression or
function code to an external text file, which you can edit in one of
these environments, and then have the built-in editor load the results
back in. But you will get the best results if you turn on a network
REPL server inside BLT so the external IDE can connect to it and
operate at full power.

To do this, choose menu:Network[nREPL: Clojure IDE connection]:

image:ReplMenu.png[nREPL menu option,360,200]

This will open a small window which allows you to configure and start
the nREPL server the IDEs can use:

image:ReplWindow.png[nREPL Server window,372,222]

The default port number was chosen to be different from the Carabiner
port (in case you are using that), and unlikely to be otherwise used.
If for some reason port 17,001 is in use on your computer, you can
pick a different port. You just need to tell the IDE which port you
are using when you have it connect to the nREPL server.

If you are going to use Cursive, you can simply start the server by
clicking the `Run` checkbox. If you are going to use CIDER, to make
full use of CIDER's powerful features, click the `Inject` checkbox
first, which will configure the nREPL server to add special CIDER
middleware. (If you forgot to do this, you can uncheck the `Run`
checkbox to stop the server, check `Inject`, and then `Run` it again.)

Although it probably won't hurt to inject the CIDER handler when using
a different editor, it's a little safer to leave it out of the loop if
you don't need it.

=== Connecting from Cursive

Once you have the nREPL server running (without injecting the CIDER
handler), you will want to follow the Cursive instructions for
https://cursive-ide.com/userguide/repl.html#remote-repls[Remote
REPLs], using the `Connect to server` radio button, entering
`127.0.0.1` as the `Host` (assuming you are running Cursive on the
same machine as Beat Link Trigger, although you don't have to!) and
then set the `Port` value to the one you chose in Beat Link Trigger.

Once you have your Remote REPL configuration created, it appears in
the menu at the top right of the project window, and you can connect
to it by pressing the green triangle (play button) to the right of it
(I named my configuration BLT nREPL):

image:Cursive.png[Cursive connected,535,550]

Whatever expressions you type at the bottom of the REPL window are
immediately evaluated, and the results shown above, and you can use
Cursive's editor window features to send functions and files to the
REPL. Cursive's built-in completion can be seen in action at the
bottom of the above screen shot. See the
https://cursive-ide.com/userguide/[Cursive User Guide] for more
information.


=== Connecting from CIDER

Once you have the nREPL server running with the CIDER handler
injected, you can tell CIDER to connect to it by typing kbd:[M-x]
`cider-connect` kbd:[RET] and CIDER will prompt you for the host and
port information. If you are running BLT on the same machine as CIDER,
enter `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` for the host, and then enter the port
number you chose in Beat Link Trigger.

The https://docs.cider.mx/cider/index.html[CIDER Docs] give you the
details of how to work with it.

=== Using the Connection

Regardless of the IDE you are using, you will probably want to switch
your namespace to `beat-link-trigger.expressions` because this is
where your Shared Functions live, and they are where you should put
your most sophisticated coding, so that individual expressions can be
short and sweet, using the Shared Functions for the heavy lifting.
This namespace is also configured to include Clojure's
developer-friendly functions like `doc` (to let you look at the
documentation for a function or variable), `source` (to let you see
the source code of a function), and so on. The
https://clojure.org/reference/repl_and_main[Clojure documentation]
mentions some of the things you can do at the REPL (although you can
ignore the parts that talk about how to start Clojure; Beat Link
Trigger has already done that for you). There is a page about
https://clojure.org/guides/repl/basic_usage[basic usage],
https://clojure.org/guides/repl/navigating_namespaces[navigating
namespaces], and a
https://clojure.org/guides/repl/annex_community_resources[collection
of resources] describing REPLs and the mindset of using them
effectively. (The navigation links on the left side and top of those
pages can take you other good places for learning about the REPL,
Clojure, troubleshooting, and so on.)

For more ideas specifically about how to explore Beat Link Trigger
from a Clojure IDE, mention you are doing it on the
https://deep-symmetry.zulipchat.com/join/lp5i6yolkay7erzjzodx365q/[Zulip
stream]!

Commit message:

Make playlist splitting after players idle optional.
Also fix saving playlist preferences if the window is open when BLT is
quit, and gracefully shutting down Carabiner at quit time.

Also update the displayed playlist filename when a split occurs.

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Debugging.adoc, after:

= Debugging and Sharing
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Beat Link Trigger offers a few mechanisms to help you understand how
your triggers are (or are not) working, and to save and restore
versions of them, or share them with friends and colleagues (or on the
https://deep-symmetry.zulipchat.com/join/lp5i6yolkay7erzjzodx365q/[Zulip
stream] or
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/wiki[project Wiki]
to either get help from others, or share and show them off). +++<img
src="_images/HelpMenu.png" width="250" height="205" alt="Help Menu"
style="float:right"/>+++

Help resources can be found in the menu:Help[] menu, along with an
embedded copy of this User Guide, which can be used even if you are
not connected to the Internet (although links to other sites will not
work in that case).

There’s no way for the author to know how many people are using the
the program, or where they are, unless they choose to contact him.
Many people have (especially on the Zulip stream), but if you have
not, and would like to say hello and share how you are using Beat
Link Trigger, it would be greatly appreciated! You can use
menu:Help[Send User Greeting (email)] to make it easy.

[[logs]]
== Logs

When Beat Link Trigger is running it reports events to a log file. As
noted above, this includes full stack traces for compilation problems
when you try to save an expression that isn’t quite right. If a
problem occurs while trying to run your expression later, that will
end up in the log too. So it can be a useful place to look when things
are not working the way you expect. You can find the log file by choosing
menu:Help[Open Logs Folder].

Each time you launch Beat Link Trigger it creates a new log folder in
a temporary directory, so that they can be cleaned up automatically
sometime after it exits. It cycles through log files and limits their
maximum length, which can be important if an error is being logged
each time a packet comes in because of a problematic Enabled Filter
expression.

Even if things are not crashing, you might want to log your own
information to get a better understanding of what is happening inside
one of your expressions. Beat Link Trigger uses
https://github.com/ptaoussanis/timbre[timbre] to perform its logging,
and so can you.

For example, if you are trying to figure out exactly what you are
receiving in your Beat expression, you could add this as its first
line:

```clojure
(timbre/info "Received beat" status "master?" tempo-master?)
```

Suddenly your logs will be growing steadily, filling with lines like these:

```
2016-Jun-05 00:12:10 Alacrity.local INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] -
  Received beat Beat: Device 2, name: CDJ-2000nexus, pitch: +0.00%,
  track BPM: 126.0, effective BPM: 126.0, beat within bar: 4 master? true
2016-Jun-05 00:12:11 Alacrity.local INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] -
  Received beat Beat: Device 33, name: DJM-2000nexus, pitch: +0.00%,
  track BPM: 126.0, effective BPM: 126.0, beat within bar: 1 master? false
```

[[reporting-issues]]
== Reporting Issues

If you run into trouble and it seems likely the problem is in Beat
Link Trigger itself rather than one of your own expressions, you can
use menu:Help[Report Issue (email)] to send an email to Deep Symmetry
asking for help. The message will start out populated with some
information about the version of Beat Link Trigger you are running,
along with the Java version and operating system, but the more details
you can provide in the initial report (along with relevant logs), the
more likely we will be able to figure out what is going on.

The program may also offer to compose an issue pre-filled with details
when it encounters unexpected messages sent by CDJs it is talking to.

If the problem turns out to be trickier than can be understood from
just logs, follow-up questions and experimentation may be needed. In
such cases
https://blog.fastthread.io/2016/06/06/how-to-take-thread-dumps-7-options/[thread
dumps] are often a valuable next step.

[[wireshark]]
=== Wireshark Captures

If you are helping investigate an issue involving communication with
the DJ Link gear (especially when new products are released), it will
be necessary for you to include a packet capture of what was happening
on the network when you saw the problem or tried to use the gear. For
that, download and install https://www.wireshark.org[Wireshark], then
perform a capture and include the file in your report.

To make it easier to understand how the capture relates to an issue
you are seeing, it is even better if you can include a movie of your
screen showing when the problem happens, and also include the precise
timestamp in that video. The easiest way to have timestamps appear in
your video is to download and open the
link:{attachmentsdir}/Timestamp.bls[Timestamp show] that is embedded
in this guide, and position its window near the part of your screen
where you are capturing the issue. The Timestamp show looks like this:

image:TimestampShow.png[Timestamp Show,477,244]

The timestamps it displays are identical to the ones that Wireshark
writes in the capture file, which makes it possible to correlate
things happening on the screen with packets in the capture.

If there is room to have the Wireshark capture window appear in your
video also, great! That can be very helpful, but the timestamp window
is easier to read at small movie sizes.

[NOTE]
====
In case you are curious, the code that implements this Timestamp show
is very short:

.Global Setup Expression
[source,clojure]
----
(show/require-version show "0.5.5")  ;; <1>
(swap! globals assoc :running true)  ;; <2>
(let [formatter (java.text.SimpleDateFormat. "HH:mm:ss.SSS")
      timestamp (seesaw/label :text "00:00:00.0000"
                              :halign :center :valign :center
                              :font "DSEG7 Classic-40")]
  (show/block-tracks show timestamp)  ;; <3>
  (future  ;; <4>
    (loop []
      (seesaw/invoke-now
        (seesaw/value! timestamp (.format formatter (java.util.Date.))))
      (Thread/sleep 33)
      (when (:running @globals) (recur)))))
----

<1> Check that the version of BLT is new enough for this show to work.

<2> Set a `:running` flag that we can use to stop the animation thread
(below).

<3> Update the show window to reflect that it does not use tracks,
also replacing the normal content of the window with the big timestamp
label.

<4> Create a background animation thread to update the label 30 times
each second.

And when the window closes, we tell the animation thread to stop by
removing the `:running` flag:

.Global Shutdown Expression
[source,clojure]
----
(swap! globals dissoc :running)
----

Since those are the only things in the show, the file is only 560
bytes long.
====

=== GitHub Issues

You can also skip the email and open an
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/issues[Issue]
directly on the project’s GitHub page.

In any case, even if Deep Symmetry is unable to investigate your
report immediately (since this is free software developed during our
spare time), we very much appreciate you taking the effort to send it.

[[inspecting]]
== Inspecting Locals and Globals

In addition to logging values to the log file, you can get a glimpse
at what your expressions are up to by opening an inspector window on
the Expression Globals or a particular trigger’s Expression Locals.
The first is done by choosing menu:Triggers[Inspect Expression
Globals]. This opens a window showing you all the keys and values that
have been created in the `globals` atom shared by all triggers. Here
is what that looks like after the example code shown in the
<<Expressions_TriggerGlobal.adoc#,Global Expressions section>> has run:

image:ExpressionGlobals.png[Expression Globals,872,462]

The inspector is a little messy, but right away you can see the three
keys we created, and the corresponding Java objects stored under them.
by clicking next to the blue diamond in the lower pane, you can expand
each entry and dive down into the fields and values that make it up,
which can be quite a powerful way to explore the objects.

Similarly, the locals for a trigger can be inspected by choosing
menu:Inspect Expression Locals[] from that trigger’s context menu.
Here’s the result of drilling down a little into the `:resolume` OSC
client object created in that example’s trigger:

image:ExpressionLocals.png[Expression Locals,789,626]

[[saving-and-loading]]
== Saving and Loading

The entire trigger configuration can be saved to a text file by
choosing menu:File[Save to File]. That file can be sent to another
machine, shared with a colleague, or just kept around for future use
after you are done with a different project. As you would expect,
menu:File[Load from File] replaces the current trigger configuration
with one loaded from a save file.

[CAUTION]
====

Beat Link Trigger automatically saves your triggers when you exit the
program normally. If you shut down your computer, or otherwise
force-quit the Beat Link Trigger process, it may not have the chance
to do this, and you might lose work. If you are concerned about that
happening, you can periodically manually save your current trigger
configuration by choosing menu:File[Save].

image:Save.png[Save option,189,156]

====

[[exporting-and-importing]]
=== Exporting and Importing Triggers

As mentioned in the <<Triggers.adoc#context-menu,Triggers Context Menu>>
section, individual triggers can be exported on their own, and
imported into other trigger configurations.

[[writing-playlists]]
== Writing Playlists

If you are in a situation where it is important to keep detailed
records of the music being played (for example, a radio station that
needs to pay royalties), the built in Playlist Writer can help. It
builds on the ideas described in the
<<Matching.adoc#writing-a-playlist,Matching Tracks Manually>> section
to give you a robust, convenient solution.

Start by choosing menu:File[Write Playlist]. This will bring up the
Playlist Writer window.

image:PlaylistWriter.png[Playlist Writer,587,344]

You can configure how long a track needs to be played for before it
gets included in the playlist (the default is ten seconds) and whether
you want to ignore players that are not reporting themselves as being
on the air (very convenient to ignore DJs pre-screening tracks, as
long as you are using a DJM mixer that supports this feature, and the
players are configured and connected properly).

You can also specify that a new playlist file should be started if a
track is played after all players have been stopped for a while, and
configure how many minutes can pass with no player playing before such
a new playlist file is created. The default threshold for this when
the auto-split feature is enabled is 30 minutes. When creating new
files because this New Playlist Threshold has been exceeded, the file
names have timestamps added to them as described in the
<<#automatically-starting,next section>>.

Once everything is set the way you want it, click kbd:[Start] and you
will be prompted to choose where to save the file. Once you have done
that, the window updates to show you that the playlist is being written:

image:PlaylistWriterActive.png[Playlist Writer active,587,344]

From this point on, all tracks that play longer than your configured
minimum time will be written to the playlist, in Comma-Separated Value
format (for convenient use in spreadsheet programs). The playlist will
include track titles, artists, albums (when this information is
available), as well as the player they were played on, the source
player and media type, when they started and stopped playing, and the
total time they played.

When you are done recording the playlist you can either click kbd:[Stop]
or close the window, and the file will be closed out.

[[automatically-starting]]
=== Automatically Starting the Playlist Writer

If you want to be sure that playlsits are always being written, you
can add a line to your Came Online Expression that starts the playlist
writer as soon as Beat Link Trigger is connected to a DJ Link network.
Call the function `playlist-writer/write-playlist` with three
arguments, `folder` (which determines the directory in which the
playlist should be written), `prefix` (which specifies the first part
of the playlist's filename), and `append?` which controls what happens
if the file already exists.

The filename will be built by adding ".csv" after `prefix`. If a file
by that name already exists in the specified `folder`, then if
`append?` is true, the existing file will be used, and new tracks will
be added to the end. If the file exists and `append?` is false, then a
timestamp will be added in between the prefix and the ".csv" extension
so that a new playlist file will always be created.

For example, consider the following code:

[source,clojure]
----
(playlist-writer/write-playlist "/Users/james/playlists" "playlist" false)
----

With this in the Came Online Expression, whenever BLT establishes
connection to a DJ Link network, a new playlist will be created in the
directory `/Users/james/playlists/`. If there is not already such a
file present, it will be called `/Users/james/playlists/playlist.csv`.
If that file already exists, then a file with a name like
`/Users/james/playlists/playlist_2022_02_20T17_16_19.csv` will be
created, using the year, month, day, hour, minute, and second to
ensure it is unique.

Alternately, a line like the following would always use the file
`/tmp/played.csv`, creating it and writing the header line if it did
not exist, and otherwise just adding new tracks to the end of the
file:

[source,clojure]
----
(playlist-writer/write-playlist "/tmp" "played" true)
----


[[advanced-coding]]
== Advanced Coding

The built in code editor gives you some basic help with writing
Clojure, such as syntax coloring and parenthesis matching, but if you
are going to write more than a few lines, or want help learning
Clojure and testing ideas, you are much better off using a
full-featured Clojure development environment, like
https://cursive-ide.com[Cursive] or (if you already use the Emacs text
editor) https://cider.mx[CIDER].

Much of the power of these environments comes from the way they
interact with the live, running Clojure environment so that you can
benefit from code-completion assistance, documentation popups, and
even dive into the source code of your functions and the ones that
make up Beat Link Trigger itself, making it easy to try things out,
update your functions, examine values, and try again. This kind of
instant feedback leads to a fertile learning experience and incredibly
productive development workflow centered around the Clojure “REPL”
(read-eval-print loop).

Beat Link Trigger has features to support working in these editors. At
a basic level, the built-in code editor can save your expression or
function code to an external text file, which you can edit in one of
these environments, and then have the built-in editor load the results
back in. But you will get the best results if you turn on a network
REPL server inside BLT so the external IDE can connect to it and
operate at full power.

To do this, choose menu:Network[nREPL: Clojure IDE connection]:

image:ReplMenu.png[nREPL menu option,360,200]

This will open a small window which allows you to configure and start
the nREPL server the IDEs can use:

image:ReplWindow.png[nREPL Server window,372,222]

The default port number was chosen to be different from the Carabiner
port (in case you are using that), and unlikely to be otherwise used.
If for some reason port 17,001 is in use on your computer, you can
pick a different port. You just need to tell the IDE which port you
are using when you have it connect to the nREPL server.

If you are going to use Cursive, you can simply start the server by
clicking the `Run` checkbox. If you are going to use CIDER, to make
full use of CIDER's powerful features, click the `Inject` checkbox
first, which will configure the nREPL server to add special CIDER
middleware. (If you forgot to do this, you can uncheck the `Run`
checkbox to stop the server, check `Inject`, and then `Run` it again.)

Although it probably won't hurt to inject the CIDER handler when using
a different editor, it's a little safer to leave it out of the loop if
you don't need it.

=== Connecting from Cursive

Once you have the nREPL server running (without injecting the CIDER
handler), you will want to follow the Cursive instructions for
https://cursive-ide.com/userguide/repl.html#remote-repls[Remote
REPLs], using the `Connect to server` radio button, entering
`127.0.0.1` as the `Host` (assuming you are running Cursive on the
same machine as Beat Link Trigger, although you don't have to!) and
then set the `Port` value to the one you chose in Beat Link Trigger.

Once you have your Remote REPL configuration created, it appears in
the menu at the top right of the project window, and you can connect
to it by pressing the green triangle (play button) to the right of it
(I named my configuration BLT nREPL):

image:Cursive.png[Cursive connected,535,550]

Whatever expressions you type at the bottom of the REPL window are
immediately evaluated, and the results shown above, and you can use
Cursive's editor window features to send functions and files to the
REPL. Cursive's built-in completion can be seen in action at the
bottom of the above screen shot. See the
https://cursive-ide.com/userguide/[Cursive User Guide] for more
information.


=== Connecting from CIDER

Once you have the nREPL server running with the CIDER handler
injected, you can tell CIDER to connect to it by typing kbd:[M-x]
`cider-connect` kbd:[RET] and CIDER will prompt you for the host and
port information. If you are running BLT on the same machine as CIDER,
enter `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` for the host, and then enter the port
number you chose in Beat Link Trigger.

The https://docs.cider.mx/cider/index.html[CIDER Docs] give you the
details of how to work with it.

=== Using the Connection

Regardless of the IDE you are using, you will probably want to switch
your namespace to `beat-link-trigger.expressions` because this is
where your Shared Functions live, and they are where you should put
your most sophisticated coding, so that individual expressions can be
short and sweet, using the Shared Functions for the heavy lifting.
This namespace is also configured to include Clojure's
developer-friendly functions like `doc` (to let you look at the
documentation for a function or variable), `source` (to let you see
the source code of a function), and so on. The
https://clojure.org/reference/repl_and_main[Clojure documentation]
mentions some of the things you can do at the REPL (although you can
ignore the parts that talk about how to start Clojure; Beat Link
Trigger has already done that for you). There is a page about
https://clojure.org/guides/repl/basic_usage[basic usage],
https://clojure.org/guides/repl/navigating_namespaces[navigating
namespaces], and a
https://clojure.org/guides/repl/annex_community_resources[collection
of resources] describing REPLs and the mindset of using them
effectively. (The navigation links on the left side and top of those
pages can take you other good places for learning about the REPL,
Clojure, troubleshooting, and so on.)

For more ideas specifically about how to explore Beat Link Trigger
from a Clojure IDE, mention you are doing it on the
https://deep-symmetry.zulipchat.com/join/lp5i6yolkay7erzjzodx365q/[Zulip
stream]!
