= Triggers Global Expressions
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

The Triggers menu at the top of the window lets you define two
expressions that can manage values you want to make available to all
your other Trigger expressions.

To support that, all Trigger expressions have access to a Clojure
http://clojure.org/reference/atoms[atom] named `globals` that is
shared with all other Trigger expressions, so thatâ€™s a great place to
put things for them to find. The atom starts out holding an empty
http://clojure.org/reference/data_structures#Maps[map], which allows
you to add key/value pairs to organize the information you want to
share across expressions.

[[global-setup-expression]]
== Global Setup Expression

This is run when Beat Link Trigger starts up, or when you open a new
Trigger file, so it runs before any of your individual trigger
expressions. As a simple example of what you might want to do, here is
an expression opens the Player Status window:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(beat-link-trigger.triggers/show-player-status)
----

Setting this as your Global Setup Expression will automatically open
the Player Status window whenever Beat Link Trigger launches. (This
also makes sure subsystems like the `TimeFinder` are running, which
can be helpful if you are writing other expressions that depend on
knowing the playback position of tracks.)

If you ever start up BLT in offline mode with this Global Setup
Expression in place, however, you will be presented with an error
dialog, complaining "`Must be Online to show Player Status window.`"
To avoid being inconvenienced by that, we can make the expression
smarter, so it only tries to open Player Status when already Online:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when (.isRunning (VirtualCdj/getInstance))  ;; <1>
  (beat-link-trigger.triggers/show-player-status))  ;; <2>
----

<1> A `when` clause in Clojure only executes its body if a test
expression returns a true value. In this case we ask the Beat Link
`VirtualCdj` object if it is running, which is only true when Beat
Link Trigger is online.

<2> This means the expression body, which is the same as our first
attempt at opening Player Status, is only run when it is safe to do
so.

But there is an even better way to do this, now that version 0.5.4 has
added the <<came-online-expression,Came Online Expression>> which runs
once Beat Link Trigger has successfully connected to a DJ Link
network. Using that expression to show the Player Status window means
it will always be safe to try, and -- even better -- the window will
be reopened every time you go back online, not just when initially
starting the program.

Here is an even more sophisticated example that creates a
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/DatagramSocket.html[`DatagramSocket`]
for sending a remote trigger command to the ChamSys MagicQ lighting
control software using its
https://secure.chamsys.co.uk/help/documentation/magicq/udp.html#_chamsys_remote_ethernet_protocol[remote
ethernet protocol]:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(let [chamsys-address (InetSocketAddress.  ;; <1>
                       (InetAddress/getByName "172.16.42.255") 6553)
      trigger-on (byte-array (map int "71,1H"))  ;; <2>
      trigger-off (byte-array (map int "71,0H"))]
  (swap! globals assoc  ;; <3>
         :chamsys-socket (DatagramSocket.)  ;; <4>
         :chamsys-on (DatagramPacket. trigger-on (count trigger-on) ;; <5>
                                      chamsys-address)
         :chamsys-off (DatagramPacket. trigger-off (count trigger-off)
                                      chamsys-address)))
----

This begins with a `let` binding which sets up some values that will
be used later in the expression.

<1> `chamsys-address` gets set to a
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/SocketAddress.html[`SocketAddress`]
representing port 6553 (the default port used by MagicQ) on the
broadcast address for the Deep Symmetry show network (you will need to
use the value appropriate for your own network).

<2> `trigger-on` and `trigger-off` are arrays of bytes containing the
characters that make up the commands for turning a MagicQ remote
programming trigger on and off.

<3> Those values are then used in the
http://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.core-api.html#clojure.core/swap![`swap!`]
call, which is the way you modify a Clojure atom. In this case we are
modifying the map in `globals` by using
http://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.core-api.html#clojure.core/assoc[`assoc`]
to add some new key-value pairs to it:

<4> `:chamsys-socket` gets associated with a newly-allocated
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/DatagramSocket.html[`DatagramSocket`]
that triggers will be able to use for sending UDP messages to MagicQ,

<5> and the actual command packets are created as
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/DatagramPacket.html[`DatagramPacket`]
objects preconfigured with the correct command bytes and destination
address and port, in `:chamsys-on` and `:chamsys-off`.

The <<Expressions_ShowTrack.adoc#track-beat-expression,Beat Expression>> below shows how these
globals are actually used.

[[came-online-expression]]
== Came Online Expression

This is run whenever Beat Link Trigger has successfully connected to a
DJ Link network, either at initial startup or when you have told it
manually to go online. At initial startup, or whenever you open a new
Triggers file, it will run after the <<global-setup-expression,Global
Setup expression>> as long as you are online. It runs by itself when
you choose menu:Network[Online?] to successfully transition from an
offline to an online state.

You have access to the expression globals if you need to use anything
in them.

This is the perfect place to take actions that can only succeed when
Beat Link Trigger is online, such as opening the Player Status window.
The simplest approach described <<global-setup-expression,above>> is
safe to use in this expression, unlike in the Global Setup expression:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(beat-link-trigger.triggers/show-player-status)
----

With this in place, every time you successfully go online, either at
startup or using menu:Network[Online?], the Player Status window will
open for you.

Another example came up in the
https://gitter.im/brunchboy/beat-link-trigger[community chat room],
from a user who wanted to set up a turn-key lighting system that
automatically started Beat Link Trigger and Carabiner. If you are in a
situation like that, you can set up a Came Online Expression to
automatically open the Carabiner window and connect to it:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(beat-link-trigger.carabiner/show-window nil)  ;; <1>
(beat-link-trigger.carabiner/connect)  ;; <2>
(beat-link-trigger.carabiner/sync-mode :passive)  ;; <3>
(beat-link-trigger.carabiner/sync-link true)  ;; <4>
(beat-link-trigger.carabiner/align-bars true)  ;; <5>
----

<1> Opens the Carabiner window.

<2> Tries to connect to the Carabiner daemon.

<3> <<Link.adoc#passive-sync,Allows>> the DJ Link network to become
Tempo Master for Ableton Link. Other choices are `:off`,
<<Link.adoc#syncing-triggers,`:triggers`>>, and
<<Link.adoc#full-sync,`:full`>>.

<4> Causes Ableton Link to actually follow the DJ Link Tempo Master.

<5> Aligns Ableton Link and the DJ Link network at the level of entire
four-beat measures, rather than simple beat alignment.

NOTE: If you are using the above Carabiner configuration functions in
an expression, you need to perform the first three steps in the order
they are shown, because each will only work when the preceding step
has been succesfully accomplished. Functions 4 and 5 can be called in
any order.

[[going-offline-expression]]
== Going Offline Expression

This is run whenever Beat Link Trigger is online and you manually take
it offline by choosing menu:Network[Online?], exit the program, open a
new Trigger file, or choose to delete all triggers. In any of the
situations where you are doing more than just going offline, it runs
right before the <<global-shutdown-expression,Global Shutdown
expression>>. It gives you a chance to gracefully close any
connections and release any system resources you allocated in your
<<came-online-expression,Came Online Expression>>.

You have access to the expression globals if you need to use anything
in them.

[[global-shutdown-expression]]
== Global Shutdown Expression

This is run when Beat Link Trigger is exiting, or before it opens a
new Trigger file (or when you choose to delete all triggers). It gives
you a chance to close any connections and release any system resources
that you allocated in your <<global-setup-expression,Global Setup
Expression>>. Here is how we would do that for the ChamSys MagicQ
example we started above:

```clojure
(.close (:chamsys-socket @globals))
```

This simply looks up the
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/net/DatagramSocket.html[`DatagramSocket`]
that was created in the setup expression, and closes it. There is no
need to remove the key/value pairs themselves from the `globals` atom
because Beat Link Trigger will reset it to hold an empty map once the
shutdown expression finishes.
