doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc, before:

= Show Global Expressions

The Tracks menu at the top of a Show window lets you define
expressions that can manage values you want to make available to all
your other expressions within the Show. The
<<Expressions_ShowShared.adoc#,previous section>> explained how to
share functions with all the expressions in your show. Now we will
look at how to manage values for them during the show lifecycle.

All Show expressions have access to a Clojure
http://clojure.org/reference/atoms[atom] named `globals` that is
shared with all other Show expressions, so that’s a great place to put
things for them to find. The atom starts out holding an empty
http://clojure.org/reference/data_structures#Maps[map], which allows
you to add key/value pairs to organize the information you want to
share across expressions. Show expressions also all have access to the
Triggers window globals atom, under the name `trigger-globals`.

Also, all expressions that run in a show have access to a value `show`
that contains everything Beat Link Trigger knows about the show, which
can be <<ShowInternals.adoc#show,useful>>.

[[show-global-setup-expression]]
== Global Setup Expression

This is run when the Show file is opened, either because you
explicitly opened it using the Triggers window menu:File[] menu, or
because Beat Link Trigger automatically reopened it at launch because
you had it open the last time you used the program. You can use it to
open network connections or set up other values for your Track and Cue
expressions to use.

[[show-came-online-expression]]
== Came Online Expression

This is run whenever the show is opened when Beat Link Trigger is
already connected to a DJ Link network, or if you have told it
manually to go online with the show already open. When opening the
show it will run after the <<show-global-setup-expression,Global Setup
expression>> as long as you are online. It runs by itself when you
choose menu:Network[Online?] to successfully transition from an
offline to an online state.

You have access to the show and triggers globals if you need to use
anything in them.


[[show-default-enabled-filter-expression]]
== Default Enabled Filter Expression

The basic concept of an Enabled Filter is described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#editing-expressions,introduction>> to the
Expressions section; shows use them in a similar way. Each Track that
you are watching in the Show can be enabled separately. If the track’s
menu:Enabled[] menu is set to Default, that track will look to the
show itself to decide whether it should be enabled. There is an
Enabled Default menu at the top of the Show window that is used by all
tracks whose Enabled mode is Default. If the Show’s Enabled Default is
set to Custom, it will run your Default Enabled Filter Expression to
decide what to do. If your expression returns a `true` value, all
these tracks will be enabled; otherwise they will be disabled.

Disabled Tracks do not respond to being played, and all of their
configured cues are disabled.

[[show-enhanced-on-air-example]]
=== Enhanced On-Air Example

As an example of a useful Default Enabled Filter Expression, one of
the most convenient Default Enabled Filter options is `On-Air`, which
will prevent your tracks from being inadvertently enabled when a DJ is
just previewing tracks in his headphones, but will enable them once
they are actually playing through the house speakers. But this setting
runs into trouble if the DJ also likes to fade out tracks to coax the
audience to sing along: your On-Air filter will interrupt your cues
while the track is faded out completely.

To fix this, we can write a Default Enabled Filter expression that
enables the tracks both when they are On-Air, and when they
temporarily go off the air, as long as they are still playing, and
were previously enabled. Here's a first draft of a Default Enabled
Filter expression code that implements this goal (but read on before
you use it, for an even better version):

```clojure
(let [new-state (swap! globals update-in [:previously-enabled device-number]
                       (fn [was-enabled?]
                         (and playing? (or on-air? was-enabled?))))]
    (or (get-in new-state [:previously-enabled device-number])
        on-air?))

```

This works pretty well under most circumstances, but you will discover
that if the DJ happens to have the same track loaded into more than
one player, this expression will get confused, and the track will
flash between enabled and disabled when only one player is on-air. To
fix that, we need to extend the expression so that we track the
"on-air locked" state for each such player separately. Here is how we
can do that:

```clojure
(let [signature   (get-in show [:loaded device-number])
      any-on-air? ((set (vals (:on-air show))) signature)
      new-state   (swap! globals update :enable-locked
                         (fn [old-locks]
                           (let [locked (get old-locks device-number)]
                             (if (and playing?
                                      (or on-air? (= locked signature)))
                               (assoc old-locks device-number signature)
                               (dissoc old-locks device-number)))))]
  (or (get-in new-state [:enable-locked device-number])
      any-on-air?))
```

NOTE: These kinds of multi-player issues presented some of the biggest
challenges when adding the Show feature to Beat Link Trigger.


[[show-going-offline-expression]]
== Going Offline Expression

This is run whenever the show is open, Beat Link Trigger was online,
and you manually take it offline by choosing menu:Network[Online?],
when you close the Show file, or exit the program. In any of the
situations where you are doing more than just going offline, it runs
right before the <<show-global-shutdown-expression,Global Shutdown
expression>>. It gives you a chance to gracefully close any
connections and release any system resources you allocated in your
<<show-came-online-expression,Came Online Expression>>.

You have access to the show and triggers globals if you need to use
anything in them.


[[show-global-shutdown-expression]]
== Global Shutdown Expression

This is run when the Show file is closed, either because you closed
the window, or because Beat Link Trigger is shutting down. You can use
it to close any network connections or clean up any other resources
your <<show-global-setup-expression,Global Setup Expression>>
allocated.

Commit message:

Upgrade QLC integration to standalone show, #176

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc, after:

= Show Global Expressions

The Tracks menu at the top of a Show window lets you define
expressions that can manage values you want to make available to all
your other expressions within the Show. The
<<Expressions_ShowShared.adoc#,previous section>> explained how to
share functions with all the expressions in your show. Now we will
look at how to manage values for them during the show lifecycle.

All Show expressions have access to a Clojure
http://clojure.org/reference/atoms[atom] named `globals` that is
shared with all other Show expressions, so that’s a great place to put
things for them to find. The atom starts out holding an empty
http://clojure.org/reference/data_structures#Maps[map], which allows
you to add key/value pairs to organize the information you want to
share across expressions. Show expressions also all have access to the
Triggers window globals atom, under the name `trigger-globals`.

Also, all expressions that run in a show have access to a value `show`
that contains everything Beat Link Trigger knows about the show, which
can be <<ShowInternals.adoc#show,useful>>.

[[show-global-setup-expression]]
== Global Setup Expression

This is run when the Show file is opened, either because you
explicitly opened it using the Triggers window menu:File[] menu, or
because Beat Link Trigger automatically reopened it at launch because
you had it open the last time you used the program. You can use it to
open network connections or set up other values for your Track and Cue
expressions to use.

One very powerful use of this expression is to create a custom user
interface for special integration shows that don't use tracks and
phrase triggers, by calling `show/block-tracks` as described in the
<<Debugging.adoc#wireshark,Wireshark debugging section>> and the
<<Integration_XoneOnAir.adoc#,Xone:96 Channels on Air>> and
<<Integration_QLC.adoc#,QLC+ Lighting Cues>> integration examples. The
last one also shows how to use `socket-picker/show` to present a
user-friendly interface for configuring a host and port for an
integration to communicate with.

[[show-came-online-expression]]
== Came Online Expression

This is run whenever the show is opened when Beat Link Trigger is
already connected to a DJ Link network, or if you have told it
manually to go online with the show already open. When opening the
show it will run after the <<show-global-setup-expression,Global Setup
expression>> as long as you are online. It runs by itself when you
choose menu:Network[Online?] to successfully transition from an
offline to an online state.

You have access to the show and triggers globals if you need to use
anything in them.


[[show-default-enabled-filter-expression]]
== Default Enabled Filter Expression

The basic concept of an Enabled Filter is described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#editing-expressions,introduction>> to the
Expressions section; shows use them in a similar way. Each Track that
you are watching in the Show can be enabled separately. If the track’s
menu:Enabled[] menu is set to Default, that track will look to the
show itself to decide whether it should be enabled. There is an
Enabled Default menu at the top of the Show window that is used by all
tracks whose Enabled mode is Default. If the Show’s Enabled Default is
set to Custom, it will run your Default Enabled Filter Expression to
decide what to do. If your expression returns a `true` value, all
these tracks will be enabled; otherwise they will be disabled.

Disabled Tracks do not respond to being played, and all of their
configured cues are disabled.

[[show-enhanced-on-air-example]]
=== Enhanced On-Air Example

As an example of a useful Default Enabled Filter Expression, one of
the most convenient Default Enabled Filter options is `On-Air`, which
will prevent your tracks from being inadvertently enabled when a DJ is
just previewing tracks in his headphones, but will enable them once
they are actually playing through the house speakers. But this setting
runs into trouble if the DJ also likes to fade out tracks to coax the
audience to sing along: your On-Air filter will interrupt your cues
while the track is faded out completely.

To fix this, we can write a Default Enabled Filter expression that
enables the tracks both when they are On-Air, and when they
temporarily go off the air, as long as they are still playing, and
were previously enabled. Here's a first draft of a Default Enabled
Filter expression code that implements this goal (but read on before
you use it, for an even better version):

```clojure
(let [new-state (swap! globals update-in [:previously-enabled device-number]
                       (fn [was-enabled?]
                         (and playing? (or on-air? was-enabled?))))]
    (or (get-in new-state [:previously-enabled device-number])
        on-air?))

```

This works pretty well under most circumstances, but you will discover
that if the DJ happens to have the same track loaded into more than
one player, this expression will get confused, and the track will
flash between enabled and disabled when only one player is on-air. To
fix that, we need to extend the expression so that we track the
"on-air locked" state for each such player separately. Here is how we
can do that:

```clojure
(let [signature   (get-in show [:loaded device-number])
      any-on-air? ((set (vals (:on-air show))) signature)
      new-state   (swap! globals update :enable-locked
                         (fn [old-locks]
                           (let [locked (get old-locks device-number)]
                             (if (and playing?
                                      (or on-air? (= locked signature)))
                               (assoc old-locks device-number signature)
                               (dissoc old-locks device-number)))))]
  (or (get-in new-state [:enable-locked device-number])
      any-on-air?))
```

NOTE: These kinds of multi-player issues presented some of the biggest
challenges when adding the Show feature to Beat Link Trigger.


[[show-going-offline-expression]]
== Going Offline Expression

This is run whenever the show is open, Beat Link Trigger was online,
and you manually take it offline by choosing menu:Network[Online?],
when you close the Show file, or exit the program. In any of the
situations where you are doing more than just going offline, it runs
right before the <<show-global-shutdown-expression,Global Shutdown
expression>>. It gives you a chance to gracefully close any
connections and release any system resources you allocated in your
<<show-came-online-expression,Came Online Expression>>.

You have access to the show and triggers globals if you need to use
anything in them.


[[show-global-shutdown-expression]]
== Global Shutdown Expression

This is run when the Show file is closed, either because you closed
the window, or because Beat Link Trigger is shutting down. You can use
it to close any network connections or clean up any other resources
your <<show-global-setup-expression,Global Setup Expression>>
allocated.
