doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Expressions_Trigger.adoc, before:

= Trigger Expressions
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Each trigger has its own set of expressions which can be accessed from
its <<Triggers.adoc#context-menu,context menu>>. In addition to the
`globals` atom described above, these have access to a very similar
`locals` atom which can be used to share values across expressions
within the trigger itself (but not other triggers; each gets its own
`locals` map), and individual kinds of expressions will automatically
have other values available to them which make sense in the context in
which the expression is used.

TIP: The help text below the expression editor will list and explain
the values that are automatically available for use in that kind of
expression.

== Setup Expression

This is like the Global Setup Expression described
<<Expressions_TriggerGlobal.adoc#global-setup-expression,above>>, but
it is used to set up the `locals` atom, which is shared only with
other expressions on the same trigger. It is called when the trigger
is loaded, and when Beat Link Trigger starts up, after the Global
Setup Expression.

To illustrate how different expressions in a trigger can work together
using `locals`, suppose you have a single trigger that wants to send
pitch information to https://resolume.com[Resolume] Arena so that a
clip you are triggering runs at the same speed as the track playing on
the CDJ. Beat Link Trigger embeds Project Overtone’s
https://github.com/rosejn/osc-clj[osc-clj] library and aliases it to
`osc` within the context of expressions to make it easy to send Open
Sound Control messages. Assuming your copy of Arena is running on
the same machine, and listening for OSC messages on port 9801, here is
how you could set things up so your other expressions on this trigger
can communicate with it:

```clojure
(swap! locals assoc :resolume (osc/osc-client "localhost" 9801))
```

This uses
http://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.core-api.html#clojure.core/swap![`swap!`]
to modify the map in `locals` by using
http://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.core-api.html#clojure.core/assoc[`assoc`]
to add the key `:resolume`, which will hold an OSC client that can be
used to send Open Sound Control messages to Arena on the local
machine. See the Enabled Filter Expression <<enabled-filter-expression,below>> for
how we use it. And keep this setup in mind, because it will be
built on throughout the rest of this section.

TIP: Even though we use speed control in Resolume as a running
example, and these examples still provide a useful context for
understanding how expressions work in Beat Link Trigger, there is a
better way to synchronize Resolume with your tracks today. It now
https://resolume.com/support/en/link[supports Ableton Link], and
<<Link.adoc#,so does BLT>>, so you can use that for easier,
even more stable synchronization.

[[shutdown-expression]]
== Shutdown Expression

This is used to release any system resources
(open connections or files) that were allocated by the Setup
Expression. It is called when the trigger is deleted, and when Beat
Link Trigger is exiting, before the Global Shutdown Expression.

Continuing our example, here is how we would clean up the OSC client
we created to talk to Resolume when the trigger is going away:

```clojure
(osc/osc-close (:resolume @locals))
```

[[enabled-filter-expression]]
== Enabled Filter Expression

As described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#editing-expressions,introduction>> to this section,
this is used when you set a trigger’s menu:Enabled[] menu to Custom.
It is called whenever a status update packet is received from a
watched player, and tells Beat Link Trigger if the trigger should be
enabled or not. Often you will want a trigger to be enabled when a DJ
has loaded a particular track, and a variety of strategies for
achieving that are described in their own <<Matching.adoc#,section>>,
see that for lots of great ideas. Following some of its suggestions,
our Resolume example could enable its trigger with a custom Enabled
Filter along the lines of:

```clojure
(= track-title "Language")
```

TIP: Since this expression is called every time we get a status update from
a watched player, you might think it could be useful even when you
don’t need a custom Enabled state for the trigger, to relay ongoing
state information to other systems like Resolume. But because it is
called to decide which player to track when your trigger is set to
watch Any Player, it will be called more times than you might expect,
so there is a better expression to use for that kind of integration:
the Tracked Update Expression, discussed next.


== Tracked Update Expression

This is similar to the Enabled Filter Expression, but even when a
trigger is configured to potentially watch multiple players, it is
called only for the player that is currently being tracked, which will
be the one that is considered “best” as described in the
<<Triggers.adoc#watch-menu,Watch Menu>> section above. Players which enable
the trigger are better than ones that don’t; within that group, it is
better to be playing, and as a tie-breaker the lowest numbered player
is chosen.

TIP: The Tracked Update expression is the ideal place to adjust the
track description displayed in the Player Status section of the
trigger by storing values in the `:track-description` and/or
`:metadata-summary` keys of the trigger locals, although you almost
never need to do that now that we can get track metadata from the
players.

As a simple standalone example, Netsky wanted to send a MIDI note to
his lighting software whenever a different deck became tempo master,
to switch to a different look for each new track in his mix. We
accomplished that by setting up a trigger to watch the Master Player,
with the following Tracked Update Expression:

```clojure
(let [[old new] (swap-vals! locals assoc :master device-number)]  ;; <1>
  (when (not= (:master old) (:master new))  ; The master has changed.
    (when trigger-output  ; The trigger has a valid MIDI output chosen.
      (case trigger-message  ;; <2>
        "Note" (do (midi/midi-note-on trigger-output trigger-note 127
                                      (dec trigger-channel))
                   (midi/midi-note-off trigger-output trigger-note
                                      (dec trigger-channel))
        "CC"   (do (midi/midi-control trigger-output trigger-note 127
                                      (dec trigger-channel))
                   (midi/midi-control trigger-output trigger-note 0
                                      (dec trigger-channel)))
        nil))))  ;; <3>
```

<1> This code grabs the device number (if any) we last saw as tempo
master, and the current one, and saves the current one for next time.
That allows us to tell when a new deck becomes master, and thus when
to run the rest of the expression.

<2> This part is fancier than it needs to be, in order to allow the
user to configure whether to send a Note or CC message, as well as the
note/controller number and MIDI channel to send it on, using the
normal Trigger window user interface elements. Depending on the
settings, it sends the corresponding Note On message with a velocity
of 127, followed immediately by a Note Off message, or it sends A CC
with value 127 followed by another with value 0.

<3> If the user picked something other than *Note* or *CC* in the
*Message* menu, this default case prevents the `case` statement from
throwing an exception; it tells it to just not do anything.

Although it might seem strange, you want to leave this trigger's
*Enabled* setting at *Never*, because you don't want it sending MIDI
when a track starts or stops playing. That way, the only messages that
get sent are the ones from the above expression, and so whenever a new
deck becomes tempo master, the chosen message will be sent.

Continuing our more complex multi-expression Resolume example, we can
also use a Tracked Update Expression to update the playback speed
within Arena to stay synced with the current tempo of the CDJ. We
want to send messages to Resolume only when the trigger is
active--which means it is enabled and the player it is watching is
currently playing--so we wrap our expression in a `when` clause like
this:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when trigger-active?  ;; <1>
  (let [pitch (/ (- pitch-multiplier 0.05) 2)]  ;; <2>
    (osc/osc-send (:resolume @locals)
                  "/activeclip/audio/pitch/values" pitch))))  ;; <3>
----

<1> Skip this whole expression if the trigger isn’t active.

<2> We need to do a little bit of silly math because Beat Link Trigger
represents the current pitch multiplier in a fairly straightforward
way (a range where 0.0 means stopped, 1.0 means normal speed, and 2.0
means double time), while Resolume squashes that whole range into 0.0
to 1.0, slightly off-center.

<3> With that calculation accomplished, we can simply send the
appropriate OSC message to tell it the speed at which it should be
playing. (The OSC path was found by Editing the OSC Applicaton Map
within Arena and clicking on the parameter I wanted to control, as
described in the
https://resolume.com/training/2/13/76[online training].)

There is one more improvement we can make, though. Our code as it
stands sends an OSC message to Resolume for every status packet from
the watched player, even when the pitch is not changing. That’s
inefficient; it puts needless traffic on the network, and makes
Resolume waste time processing messages that don’t change anything. By
adding a little more sophistication to our Tracked Update Expression,
we can keep track of the last value we sent to Resolume, and only send
a new one when it is different. We will use a local named
`:resolume-pitch` to keep track of the last value we sent:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when trigger-active?  ;; <1>
  (let [pitch (/ (- pitch-multiplier 0.05) 2)]  ;; <2>
    (swap! locals update-in [:resolume-pitch]
           (fn [old-pitch]
             (when (not= pitch old-pitch)  ;; <3>
               (osc/osc-send (:resolume @locals)
                             "/layer3/clip3/audio/pitch/values" pitch))  ;; <4>
             pitch))))  ;; <5>
----

<1> Once again we are only doing anything when the trigger is active;
the rest of the expression will be ignored otherwise.

<2> Using the math described above, we calculate the current pitch
value in the way Resolume thinks about it.

<3> We compare the current calculated pitch value with the value that
was found in the `locals` map under `:resolume-pitch` (this is the
value, if any, we most recently sent to Resolume; see step 5).

<4> Only if they are different does `osc-send` get called to notify
Resolume of the new value.

<5> Finally we store the calculated value at `:resolume-pitch` so that
it is available for comparison when we get the next status update. The
first time this runs, there will be no comparison value found in
`locals`, so we will always send an initial pitch message to Resolume
when the right track loads for the first time.

If you want to watch this happening, you can add a log statement that
will report the new pitch value each time it is sent, like this:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when trigger-active?
  (let [pitch (/ (- pitch-multiplier 0.05) 2)]
    (swap! locals update-in [:resolume-pitch]
           (fn [old-pitch]
             (when (not= pitch old-pitch)
               (timbre/info "New pitch:" pitch)  ;; <1>
               (osc/osc-send (:resolume @locals)
                             "/layer3/clip3/audio/pitch/values" pitch))
             pitch))))
----

<1> Here is the log statement we are adding.

With this expression in place, when the trigger is active and you
fiddle with the Pitch fader on the CDJ that is playing the track, you
will see entries like this in the <<Debugging.adoc#logs,log file>>:

```
2016-Jul-24 23:21:31 INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] - New pitch: 0.475
2016-Jul-24 23:22:18 INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] - New pitch: 0.4782496452331543
2016-Jul-24 23:22:18 INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] - New pitch: 0.4802499771118164
```

== Activation Expression

This is called when the trigger trips (in other words, when it would
send a MIDI message reporting that its watched player has started to
play). You can send additional MIDI messages here, or use the Clojure
and Java networking infrastructure to send a different kind of message
entirely. If this is all you want the trigger to do, you can set its
menu:Message[] menu to Custom, to suppress the default MIDI messages
that it would otherwise send.

Continuing our Resolume example, here is an Activation expression that
would use OSC to trigger the clip that our Tracked Update expression
was adjusting the pitch for:

```clojure
(osc/osc-send (:resolume @locals) "/layer3/clip3/connect/" (int 1))
```

You can also use the Activation expression to send MIDI messages that
differ from the ones available through the graphical interface. Beat
Link Trigger embeds Project Overtone’s
https://github.com/rosejn/midi-clj[midi-clj] library and aliases it to
`midi` within the context of expressions to make it easy to send MIDI
messages. The trigger’s chosen MIDI output is available as
`trigger-output` (but may be `nil` if the device is currently not
available). So as an example of how you could send a Note On message
with velocity 42 on the note and channel chosen in the trigger window:

```clojure
(when trigger-output
  (midi/midi-note-on trigger-output trigger-note 42 (dec trigger-channel)))
```

Note that the user-oriented channel number displayed in the Trigger’s
Channel menu is actually one larger than the value you actually need
to send in the MIDI protocol (Channel 1 is represented in protocol by
the number 0, and Channel 16 by the number 15, so that the channel can
fit into four bits). So you need to decrement the value of
`trigger-channel` before passing it to the midi library, as shown
above.


== Deactivation Expression

This is called when the player that the
trigger is watching stops playing, or when the trigger becomes
disabled if it had been active. (This is when a Note Off message, or
Control Change with value zero, is sent.) You can send your own custom
messages here, much like the Activation Expression.

== Beat Expression

This is called when the player currently being tracked reports the
start of a new beat. Continuing the example started in the
<<Expressions_TriggerGlobal.adoc#global-setup-expression,Global Setup
Expression>>, here is how you could synchronize the BPM of your
ChamSys MagicQ console to the beats coming from your CDJs. Set the
trigger to watch the Master Player, and enter the following code in
the Beat Expression editor:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(.send (:chamsys-socket @locals) (:chamsys-on @locals))  ;; <1>
(future  ;; <2>
  (Thread/sleep (long (/ 30000 effective-tempo)))  ;; <3>
  (.send (:chamsys-socket @locals) (:chamsys-off @locals)))  ;; <4>
----

<1> Immediately send the UDP packet that tells MagicQ that the remote
trigger is on.

<2> We want to later tell it that it is off, but it is
critical that Beat Link Trigger expressions finish and return
promptly, or they will back up the whole event distribution system,
and cause other events to be delayed or lost. So we use Clojure’s
http://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/future[`future`] to send a block
of code to be executed in the background on another thread.

<3> The expression will return immediately, but in the background our
inner block of code sleeps for half a beat (we calculate that by
dividing 30,000 milliseconds, or half a minute, by the number of beats
per minute that the mixer reported it is running at).

<4> When we wake up, halfway through the beat, we send the other UDP
message that tells MagicQ the remote trigger is off again. So, by
cycling those messages once per beat, the lighting console can be
driven at the same BPM as the master CDJ.

Alternately, if you want to send a MIDI message whenever the master
player plays a down beat (the first beat of a bar), you could use this
Beat Expression:

```clojure
(when (and trigger-output (= 1 beat-within-bar))  ;; <1>
  (case trigger-message
    "Note" (do (midi/midi-note-on trigger-output trigger-note 127
                                  (dec trigger-channel))
               (midi/midi-note-off trigger-output trigger-note
                                   (dec trigger-channel)))
    "CC"   (do (midi/midi-control trigger-output trigger-note 127
                                  (dec trigger-channel))
               (midi/midi-control trigger-output trigger-note 0
                                  (dec trigger-channel)))
    nil))
```

<1> This checks the trigger has a valid MIDI output, and that the beat
we just received was a down beat.

This a bit more code than you might expect, but it allows the user to
configure whether to send a Note or CC message, as well as the
note/controller number and MIDI channel to send it on, using the
normal Trigger window user interface elements. Depending on the
settings, it sends the corresponding Note On message with a velocity
of 127, followed immediately by a Note Off message, or it sends A CC
with value 127 followed by another with value 0.

Although it might seem strange, you want to leave this trigger's
*Enabled* setting at *Never*, because you don't want it sending MIDI
when a track starts or stops playing. That way, the only messages that
get sent are the ones from the above expression, which is whenever the
master player plays the first beat of a measure.

Commit message:

Add link to Ineffable's Resolume tutorial video.

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Expressions_Trigger.adoc, after:

= Trigger Expressions
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Each trigger has its own set of expressions which can be accessed from
its <<Triggers.adoc#context-menu,context menu>>. In addition to the
`globals` atom described above, these have access to a very similar
`locals` atom which can be used to share values across expressions
within the trigger itself (but not other triggers; each gets its own
`locals` map), and individual kinds of expressions will automatically
have other values available to them which make sense in the context in
which the expression is used.

TIP: The help text below the expression editor will list and explain
the values that are automatically available for use in that kind of
expression.

== Setup Expression

This is like the Global Setup Expression described
<<Expressions_TriggerGlobal.adoc#global-setup-expression,above>>, but
it is used to set up the `locals` atom, which is shared only with
other expressions on the same trigger. It is called when the trigger
is loaded, and when Beat Link Trigger starts up, after the Global
Setup Expression.

To illustrate how different expressions in a trigger can work together
using `locals`, suppose you have a single trigger that wants to send
pitch information to https://resolume.com[Resolume] Arena so that a
clip you are triggering runs at the same speed as the track playing on
the CDJ. Beat Link Trigger embeds Project Overtone’s
https://github.com/rosejn/osc-clj[osc-clj] library and aliases it to
`osc` within the context of expressions to make it easy to send Open
Sound Control messages. Assuming your copy of Arena is running on
the same machine, and listening for OSC messages on port 9801, here is
how you could set things up so your other expressions on this trigger
can communicate with it:

```clojure
(swap! locals assoc :resolume (osc/osc-client "localhost" 9801))
```

This uses
http://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.core-api.html#clojure.core/swap![`swap!`]
to modify the map in `locals` by using
http://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.core-api.html#clojure.core/assoc[`assoc`]
to add the key `:resolume`, which will hold an OSC client that can be
used to send Open Sound Control messages to Arena on the local
machine. See the Enabled Filter Expression <<enabled-filter-expression,below>> for
how we use it. And keep this setup in mind, because it will be
built on throughout the rest of this section.

[TIP]
====
Even though we use speed control in Resolume as a running example, and these examples still provide a useful context for understanding how expressions work in Beat Link Trigger, there is a better way to synchronize Resolume with your tracks today.
It now https://resolume.com/support/en/link[supports Ableton Link], and <<Link.adoc#,so does BLT>>, so you can use that for easier, even more stable synchronization.

And please see Inneffable's https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVkOyBQV798[great video] for a full tutorial on the modern approach to synchronizing videos in Resolume with tracks in BLT.
====

[[shutdown-expression]]
== Shutdown Expression

This is used to release any system resources
(open connections or files) that were allocated by the Setup
Expression. It is called when the trigger is deleted, and when Beat
Link Trigger is exiting, before the Global Shutdown Expression.

Continuing our example, here is how we would clean up the OSC client
we created to talk to Resolume when the trigger is going away:

```clojure
(osc/osc-close (:resolume @locals))
```

[[enabled-filter-expression]]
== Enabled Filter Expression

As described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#editing-expressions,introduction>> to this section,
this is used when you set a trigger’s menu:Enabled[] menu to Custom.
It is called whenever a status update packet is received from a
watched player, and tells Beat Link Trigger if the trigger should be
enabled or not. Often you will want a trigger to be enabled when a DJ
has loaded a particular track, and a variety of strategies for
achieving that are described in their own <<Matching.adoc#,section>>,
see that for lots of great ideas. Following some of its suggestions,
our Resolume example could enable its trigger with a custom Enabled
Filter along the lines of:

```clojure
(= track-title "Language")
```

TIP: Since this expression is called every time we get a status update from
a watched player, you might think it could be useful even when you
don’t need a custom Enabled state for the trigger, to relay ongoing
state information to other systems like Resolume. But because it is
called to decide which player to track when your trigger is set to
watch Any Player, it will be called more times than you might expect,
so there is a better expression to use for that kind of integration:
the Tracked Update Expression, discussed next.


== Tracked Update Expression

This is similar to the Enabled Filter Expression, but even when a
trigger is configured to potentially watch multiple players, it is
called only for the player that is currently being tracked, which will
be the one that is considered “best” as described in the
<<Triggers.adoc#watch-menu,Watch Menu>> section above. Players which enable
the trigger are better than ones that don’t; within that group, it is
better to be playing, and as a tie-breaker the lowest numbered player
is chosen.

TIP: The Tracked Update expression is the ideal place to adjust the
track description displayed in the Player Status section of the
trigger by storing values in the `:track-description` and/or
`:metadata-summary` keys of the trigger locals, although you almost
never need to do that now that we can get track metadata from the
players.

As a simple standalone example, Netsky wanted to send a MIDI note to
his lighting software whenever a different deck became tempo master,
to switch to a different look for each new track in his mix. We
accomplished that by setting up a trigger to watch the Master Player,
with the following Tracked Update Expression:

```clojure
(let [[old new] (swap-vals! locals assoc :master device-number)]  ;; <1>
  (when (not= (:master old) (:master new))  ; The master has changed.
    (when trigger-output  ; The trigger has a valid MIDI output chosen.
      (case trigger-message  ;; <2>
        "Note" (do (midi/midi-note-on trigger-output trigger-note 127
                                      (dec trigger-channel))
                   (midi/midi-note-off trigger-output trigger-note
                                      (dec trigger-channel))
        "CC"   (do (midi/midi-control trigger-output trigger-note 127
                                      (dec trigger-channel))
                   (midi/midi-control trigger-output trigger-note 0
                                      (dec trigger-channel)))
        nil))))  ;; <3>
```

<1> This code grabs the device number (if any) we last saw as tempo
master, and the current one, and saves the current one for next time.
That allows us to tell when a new deck becomes master, and thus when
to run the rest of the expression.

<2> This part is fancier than it needs to be, in order to allow the
user to configure whether to send a Note or CC message, as well as the
note/controller number and MIDI channel to send it on, using the
normal Trigger window user interface elements. Depending on the
settings, it sends the corresponding Note On message with a velocity
of 127, followed immediately by a Note Off message, or it sends A CC
with value 127 followed by another with value 0.

<3> If the user picked something other than *Note* or *CC* in the
*Message* menu, this default case prevents the `case` statement from
throwing an exception; it tells it to just not do anything.

Although it might seem strange, you want to leave this trigger's
*Enabled* setting at *Never*, because you don't want it sending MIDI
when a track starts or stops playing. That way, the only messages that
get sent are the ones from the above expression, and so whenever a new
deck becomes tempo master, the chosen message will be sent.

Continuing our more complex multi-expression Resolume example, we can
also use a Tracked Update Expression to update the playback speed
within Arena to stay synced with the current tempo of the CDJ. We
want to send messages to Resolume only when the trigger is
active--which means it is enabled and the player it is watching is
currently playing--so we wrap our expression in a `when` clause like
this:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when trigger-active?  ;; <1>
  (let [pitch (/ (- pitch-multiplier 0.05) 2)]  ;; <2>
    (osc/osc-send (:resolume @locals)
                  "/activeclip/audio/pitch/values" pitch))))  ;; <3>
----

<1> Skip this whole expression if the trigger isn’t active.

<2> We need to do a little bit of silly math because Beat Link Trigger
represents the current pitch multiplier in a fairly straightforward
way (a range where 0.0 means stopped, 1.0 means normal speed, and 2.0
means double time), while Resolume squashes that whole range into 0.0
to 1.0, slightly off-center.

<3> With that calculation accomplished, we can simply send the
appropriate OSC message to tell it the speed at which it should be
playing. (The OSC path was found by Editing the OSC Applicaton Map
within Arena and clicking on the parameter I wanted to control, as
described in the
https://resolume.com/training/2/13/76[online training].)

There is one more improvement we can make, though. Our code as it
stands sends an OSC message to Resolume for every status packet from
the watched player, even when the pitch is not changing. That’s
inefficient; it puts needless traffic on the network, and makes
Resolume waste time processing messages that don’t change anything. By
adding a little more sophistication to our Tracked Update Expression,
we can keep track of the last value we sent to Resolume, and only send
a new one when it is different. We will use a local named
`:resolume-pitch` to keep track of the last value we sent:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when trigger-active?  ;; <1>
  (let [pitch (/ (- pitch-multiplier 0.05) 2)]  ;; <2>
    (swap! locals update-in [:resolume-pitch]
           (fn [old-pitch]
             (when (not= pitch old-pitch)  ;; <3>
               (osc/osc-send (:resolume @locals)
                             "/layer3/clip3/audio/pitch/values" pitch))  ;; <4>
             pitch))))  ;; <5>
----

<1> Once again we are only doing anything when the trigger is active;
the rest of the expression will be ignored otherwise.

<2> Using the math described above, we calculate the current pitch
value in the way Resolume thinks about it.

<3> We compare the current calculated pitch value with the value that
was found in the `locals` map under `:resolume-pitch` (this is the
value, if any, we most recently sent to Resolume; see step 5).

<4> Only if they are different does `osc-send` get called to notify
Resolume of the new value.

<5> Finally we store the calculated value at `:resolume-pitch` so that
it is available for comparison when we get the next status update. The
first time this runs, there will be no comparison value found in
`locals`, so we will always send an initial pitch message to Resolume
when the right track loads for the first time.

If you want to watch this happening, you can add a log statement that
will report the new pitch value each time it is sent, like this:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(when trigger-active?
  (let [pitch (/ (- pitch-multiplier 0.05) 2)]
    (swap! locals update-in [:resolume-pitch]
           (fn [old-pitch]
             (when (not= pitch old-pitch)
               (timbre/info "New pitch:" pitch)  ;; <1>
               (osc/osc-send (:resolume @locals)
                             "/layer3/clip3/audio/pitch/values" pitch))
             pitch))))
----

<1> Here is the log statement we are adding.

With this expression in place, when the trigger is active and you
fiddle with the Pitch fader on the CDJ that is playing the track, you
will see entries like this in the <<Debugging.adoc#logs,log file>>:

```
2016-Jul-24 23:21:31 INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] - New pitch: 0.475
2016-Jul-24 23:22:18 INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] - New pitch: 0.4782496452331543
2016-Jul-24 23:22:18 INFO [beat-link-trigger.expressions:?] - New pitch: 0.4802499771118164
```

== Activation Expression

This is called when the trigger trips (in other words, when it would
send a MIDI message reporting that its watched player has started to
play). You can send additional MIDI messages here, or use the Clojure
and Java networking infrastructure to send a different kind of message
entirely. If this is all you want the trigger to do, you can set its
menu:Message[] menu to Custom, to suppress the default MIDI messages
that it would otherwise send.

Continuing our Resolume example, here is an Activation expression that
would use OSC to trigger the clip that our Tracked Update expression
was adjusting the pitch for:

```clojure
(osc/osc-send (:resolume @locals) "/layer3/clip3/connect/" (int 1))
```

You can also use the Activation expression to send MIDI messages that
differ from the ones available through the graphical interface. Beat
Link Trigger embeds Project Overtone’s
https://github.com/rosejn/midi-clj[midi-clj] library and aliases it to
`midi` within the context of expressions to make it easy to send MIDI
messages. The trigger’s chosen MIDI output is available as
`trigger-output` (but may be `nil` if the device is currently not
available). So as an example of how you could send a Note On message
with velocity 42 on the note and channel chosen in the trigger window:

```clojure
(when trigger-output
  (midi/midi-note-on trigger-output trigger-note 42 (dec trigger-channel)))
```

Note that the user-oriented channel number displayed in the Trigger’s
Channel menu is actually one larger than the value you actually need
to send in the MIDI protocol (Channel 1 is represented in protocol by
the number 0, and Channel 16 by the number 15, so that the channel can
fit into four bits). So you need to decrement the value of
`trigger-channel` before passing it to the midi library, as shown
above.


== Deactivation Expression

This is called when the player that the
trigger is watching stops playing, or when the trigger becomes
disabled if it had been active. (This is when a Note Off message, or
Control Change with value zero, is sent.) You can send your own custom
messages here, much like the Activation Expression.

== Beat Expression

This is called when the player currently being tracked reports the
start of a new beat. Continuing the example started in the
<<Expressions_TriggerGlobal.adoc#global-setup-expression,Global Setup
Expression>>, here is how you could synchronize the BPM of your
ChamSys MagicQ console to the beats coming from your CDJs. Set the
trigger to watch the Master Player, and enter the following code in
the Beat Expression editor:

[source,clojure,subs=attributes+]
----
(.send (:chamsys-socket @locals) (:chamsys-on @locals))  ;; <1>
(future  ;; <2>
  (Thread/sleep (long (/ 30000 effective-tempo)))  ;; <3>
  (.send (:chamsys-socket @locals) (:chamsys-off @locals)))  ;; <4>
----

<1> Immediately send the UDP packet that tells MagicQ that the remote
trigger is on.

<2> We want to later tell it that it is off, but it is
critical that Beat Link Trigger expressions finish and return
promptly, or they will back up the whole event distribution system,
and cause other events to be delayed or lost. So we use Clojure’s
http://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/future[`future`] to send a block
of code to be executed in the background on another thread.

<3> The expression will return immediately, but in the background our
inner block of code sleeps for half a beat (we calculate that by
dividing 30,000 milliseconds, or half a minute, by the number of beats
per minute that the mixer reported it is running at).

<4> When we wake up, halfway through the beat, we send the other UDP
message that tells MagicQ the remote trigger is off again. So, by
cycling those messages once per beat, the lighting console can be
driven at the same BPM as the master CDJ.

Alternately, if you want to send a MIDI message whenever the master
player plays a down beat (the first beat of a bar), you could use this
Beat Expression:

```clojure
(when (and trigger-output (= 1 beat-within-bar))  ;; <1>
  (case trigger-message
    "Note" (do (midi/midi-note-on trigger-output trigger-note 127
                                  (dec trigger-channel))
               (midi/midi-note-off trigger-output trigger-note
                                   (dec trigger-channel)))
    "CC"   (do (midi/midi-control trigger-output trigger-note 127
                                  (dec trigger-channel))
               (midi/midi-control trigger-output trigger-note 0
                                  (dec trigger-channel)))
    nil))
```

<1> This checks the trigger has a valid MIDI output, and that the beat
we just received was a down beat.

This a bit more code than you might expect, but it allows the user to
configure whether to send a Note or CC message, as well as the
note/controller number and MIDI channel to send it on, using the
normal Trigger window user interface elements. Depending on the
settings, it sends the corresponding Note On message with a velocity
of 127, followed immediately by a Note Off message, or it sends A CC
with value 127 followed by another with value 0.

Although it might seem strange, you want to leave this trigger's
*Enabled* setting at *Never*, because you don't want it sending MIDI
when a track starts or stops playing. That way, the only messages that
get sent are the ones from the above expression, which is whenever the
master player plays the first beat of a measure.
