doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Expressions_ShowTrack.adoc, before:

= Show Track Expressions
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Each track you add to a show can have its own set of expressions which
apply to that track, allowing you to take actions when the track is
loaded on a player, starts or stops playing, and so on. To react to
more specific regions of the track, see the
<<Expressions_ShowCue.adoc#,Cue Expressions, below>>.

The track expressions can be accessed from the track’s
<<Shows_Tracks.adoc#track-context-menu,context menu>>. In addition to
the `globals` and `trigger-globals` atoms and the `show` value
described above, these have access to a very similar `locals` atom
which can be used to share values across expressions within the track
itself (but not other tracks; each gets its own `locals` map), a
`track` value that contains everything Beat Link Trigger
<<ShowInternals.adoc#track,knows about the track>>, and individual
kinds of expressions will automatically have other values available to
them which make sense in the context in which the expression is used.

TIP: The help text below the expression editor will list and explain
the values that are automatically available for use in that kind of
expression.

[[track-setup-expression]]
== Setup Expression

This is run when the Show file is opened, either because you
explicitly opened it using the Triggers window menu:File[] menu, or
because Beat Link Trigger automatically reopened it at launch because
you had it open the last time you used the program. You can use it to
open network connections or set up other values for this Track and its
Cue expressions to use.

[[track-enabled-filter-expression]]
== Enabled Filter Expression

The basic concept of an Enabled Filter is described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#editing-expressions,introduction>> to the
Expressions section; tracks use them in a similar way. If the track’s
menu:Enabled[] menu is set to Custom, it will run its Enabled Filter
Expression to decide what to do. If your expression returns a `true`
value, this track will be enabled; otherwise it will be disabled.

Disabled Tracks do not respond to being played, and all of their
configured cues are disabled.

[[track-enhanced-on-air-example]]
=== Enhanced On-Air Example

As an example of a useful Enabled Filter Expression, one of the most
convenient Enabled Filter options is `On-Air`, which will prevent your
cues from running when a DJ is previewing a track in his headphones,
but run them once it is actually playing through the house speakers.
But this runs into trouble if the DJ also likes to fade out tracks to
coax the audience to sing along: your On-Air filter will stop your
cues while the track is faded out completely.

To fix this, we can write an Enabled Filter expression that enables
the track both when it is On-Air, and when it temporarily goes off the
air, as long as it is still playing, and was previously enabled.
Here's the custom Enabled Filter expression code that implements this
goal:

```clojure
(let [new-state (swap! globals update-in [:previously-enabled device-number]
                       (fn [was-enabled?]
                         (and playing? (or on-air? was-enabled?))))]
    (or (get-in new-state [:previously-enabled device-number])
        on-air?))

```

NOTE: You can also set the menu:Enabled[] menu to Default in order to
run the Show-level Default Enabled Filter as described
<<Shows_Tracks.adoc#enabled-menu,above>>. This expression probably
deserves to live at the Show level, and then you can tweak individual
tracks that should behave differently.



[[track-loaded-expression]]
== Loaded Expression

This is called when the track is first loaded into any player. (The
same track might be loaded into multiple players at the same time;
this expression is called only when the first player loads it. The
track will continue to be considered loaded until the final player
unloads it.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the track’s
menu:Loaded Message[] menu is set to `Custom`.

This expression is only called when the track is enabled (disabled
tracks are not considered loaded).

[[track-playing-expression]]
== Playing Expression

This is called when some player begins to play the track. (The same
track might be playing on multiple players at the same time; this
expression is called only when the first player starts playing it. The
track will continue to be considered playing until the final player
stops playing it.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the track’s
menu:Playing Message[] menu is set to `Custom`.

This expression is only called when the track is enabled (disabled
tracks are not considered to be playing).

As an example, here is a Playing Expression that would do the exact
same thing as setting the track's menu:Playing Message[] menu to `Note`:

[source,clojure]
----
(when midi-output
  (midi/midi-note-on midi-output playing-note 127 (dec playing-channel)))
----

The `(when midi-output …)` clause that wraps the `midi-note-on` call
just protects against the situation where the chosen output can’t be
found because it isn’t plugged in at the moment. Without this, the
attempt to send the note will throw an exception that gets written at
length to the log file. In the context of this Expression, the
`midi-output` variable is set to the MIDI output device chosen for the
Track, and will be `nil` if that device is not currently connected.

This uses the embedded MIDI library to send a Note On message to the
Track's chosen output device. The variable `playing-note` is set to
the note number chosen for the Track's Playing Message, `127` is the
maximum MIDI note velocity, and `playing-channel` is set to the
channel chosen for the Track, but since the user interface displays
MIDI channel numbers in the traditional user-centric range from 1 to
16, and the actual protocol requires them to be sent in the 4-bit
range 0-15, we need to subtract 1 from the variable value before
sending it, which is what the `dec` (decrement) function does.

You can tweak this to send different notes (by substituting your own
value or variable for `playing-note`) at different velocities (by
replacing the `127`) on different channels, or of course do something
else completely. The Track Stopped discussion
<<track-stopped-expression,below>> shows what you would need to set up
to emulate the other half of the `Note` mode using your own
expressions.

[[track-beat-expression]]
== Beat Expression

Called whenever a beat packet is received from a player that is
playing this track, as long as the track is enabled.

[[track-tracked-update-expression]]
== Tracked Update Expression

Called whenever a status update packet is received from a player that
has this track loaded, after the Enabled Filter Expression, if any,
has had a chance to decide if the track is enabled, and after the
Loaded, Playing, Stopped, or Unloaded expression, if appropriate.

If the track is not enabled, this expression is not called.

[[track-stopped-expression]]
== Stopped Expression

This is called when the last player that had been playing the track
stops. (The same track might be playing on multiple players at the
same time; this expression is called only when the final player stops
playing it, so it is no longer playing on any player.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the track’s Playing
Message menu is set to `Custom`.

A track will also report stopping if it becomes disabled while it was
playing.

To complete the example introduced in the Playing Expression
<<track-playing-expression,above>>, here is an expression that sends
the same MIDI event when a track stops that you get by setting the
menu:Playing Message[] menu to `Note`:

[source,clojure]
----
(when midi-output
  (midi/midi-note-off midi-output playing-note (dec playing-channel)))
----

As described in the initial example
<<track-playing-expression,above>>, this checks to be sure the MIDI
output device that has been selected for the track is currently
connected before sending it a Note Off message for the configured note
and channel. Again, you can tweak this to send different messages. For
example, you might actually want to send a different Note On message
when the track stops playing; for that, you would use the same code
shown in the <<track-playing-expression,Playing Expression>> section.

[[track-unloaded-expression]]
== Unloaded Expression

This is called when the track is unloaded from the last player that
had loaded it. (The same track might be loaded into multiple players
at the same time; this expression is called only when the final player
unloads it, so it is no longer loaded in any player.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the track’s
menu:Loaded Message[] menu is set to `Custom`.

A track will also report unloading if it becomes disabled while it was
loaded.

[[track-shutdown-expression]]
== Shutdown Expression

This is run when the Show file is closed, either because you closed
the window, or because Beat Link Trigger is shutting down. You can use
it to close any network connections or clean up any other resources
your Setup Expression allocated.

Commit message:

Improve enhanced on-air enabled filter example.

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Expressions_ShowTrack.adoc, after:

= Show Track Expressions
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Each track you add to a show can have its own set of expressions which
apply to that track, allowing you to take actions when the track is
loaded on a player, starts or stops playing, and so on. To react to
more specific regions of the track, see the
<<Expressions_ShowCue.adoc#,Cue Expressions, below>>.

The track expressions can be accessed from the track’s
<<Shows_Tracks.adoc#track-context-menu,context menu>>. In addition to
the `globals` and `trigger-globals` atoms and the `show` value
described above, these have access to a very similar `locals` atom
which can be used to share values across expressions within the track
itself (but not other tracks; each gets its own `locals` map), a
`track` value that contains everything Beat Link Trigger
<<ShowInternals.adoc#track,knows about the track>>, and individual
kinds of expressions will automatically have other values available to
them which make sense in the context in which the expression is used.

TIP: The help text below the expression editor will list and explain
the values that are automatically available for use in that kind of
expression.

[[track-setup-expression]]
== Setup Expression

This is run when the Show file is opened, either because you
explicitly opened it using the Triggers window menu:File[] menu, or
because Beat Link Trigger automatically reopened it at launch because
you had it open the last time you used the program. You can use it to
open network connections or set up other values for this Track and its
Cue expressions to use.

[[track-enabled-filter-expression]]
== Enabled Filter Expression

The basic concept of an Enabled Filter is described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#editing-expressions,introduction>> to the
Expressions section; tracks use them in a similar way. If the track’s
menu:Enabled[] menu is set to Custom, it will run its Enabled Filter
Expression to decide what to do. If your expression returns a `true`
value, this track will be enabled; otherwise it will be disabled.

Disabled Tracks do not respond to being played, and all of their
configured cues are disabled.

[[track-enhanced-on-air-example]]
=== Enhanced On-Air Example

As an example of a useful Enabled Filter Expression, one of the most
convenient Enabled Filter options is `On-Air`, which will prevent your
cues from running when a DJ is previewing a track in his headphones,
but run them once it is actually playing through the house speakers.
But this runs into trouble if the DJ also likes to fade out tracks to
coax the audience to sing along: your On-Air filter will stop your
cues while the track is faded out completely.

To fix this, we can write an Enabled Filter expression that enables
the track both when it is On-Air, and when it temporarily goes off the
air, as long as it is still playing, and was previously enabled.
Here's the custom Enabled Filter expression code that implements this
goal:

```clojure
(let [signature   (get-in show [:loaded device-number])
      any-on-air? ((set (vals (:on-air show))) signature)
      new-state   (swap! globals update :enable-locked
                         (fn [old-locks]
                           (let [locked (get old-locks device-number)]
                             (if (and playing?
                                      (or on-air? (= locked signature)))
                               (assoc old-locks device-number signature)
                               (dissoc old-locks device-number)))))]
  (or (get-in new-state [:enable-locked device-number])
      any-on-air?))
```

NOTE: You can also set the menu:Enabled[] menu to Default in order to
run the Show-level Default Enabled Filter as described
<<Shows_Tracks.adoc#enabled-menu,above>>. This expression probably
deserves to
<<Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc#show-default-enabled-filter-expression,live
at the Show level>>, and then you can tweak individual tracks that
should behave differently. The expression explanation
<<Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc#show-enhanced-on-air-example,found
there>> also walks through an earlier, simpler version of the
expression, and explains why it was not quite enough.



[[track-loaded-expression]]
== Loaded Expression

This is called when the track is first loaded into any player. (The
same track might be loaded into multiple players at the same time;
this expression is called only when the first player loads it. The
track will continue to be considered loaded until the final player
unloads it.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the track’s
menu:Loaded Message[] menu is set to `Custom`.

This expression is only called when the track is enabled (disabled
tracks are not considered loaded).

[[track-playing-expression]]
== Playing Expression

This is called when some player begins to play the track. (The same
track might be playing on multiple players at the same time; this
expression is called only when the first player starts playing it. The
track will continue to be considered playing until the final player
stops playing it.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the track’s
menu:Playing Message[] menu is set to `Custom`.

This expression is only called when the track is enabled (disabled
tracks are not considered to be playing).

As an example, here is a Playing Expression that would do the exact
same thing as setting the track's menu:Playing Message[] menu to `Note`:

[source,clojure]
----
(when midi-output
  (midi/midi-note-on midi-output playing-note 127 (dec playing-channel)))
----

The `(when midi-output …)` clause that wraps the `midi-note-on` call
just protects against the situation where the chosen output can’t be
found because it isn’t plugged in at the moment. Without this, the
attempt to send the note will throw an exception that gets written at
length to the log file. In the context of this Expression, the
`midi-output` variable is set to the MIDI output device chosen for the
Track, and will be `nil` if that device is not currently connected.

This uses the embedded MIDI library to send a Note On message to the
Track's chosen output device. The variable `playing-note` is set to
the note number chosen for the Track's Playing Message, `127` is the
maximum MIDI note velocity, and `playing-channel` is set to the
channel chosen for the Track, but since the user interface displays
MIDI channel numbers in the traditional user-centric range from 1 to
16, and the actual protocol requires them to be sent in the 4-bit
range 0-15, we need to subtract 1 from the variable value before
sending it, which is what the `dec` (decrement) function does.

You can tweak this to send different notes (by substituting your own
value or variable for `playing-note`) at different velocities (by
replacing the `127`) on different channels, or of course do something
else completely. The Track Stopped discussion
<<track-stopped-expression,below>> shows what you would need to set up
to emulate the other half of the `Note` mode using your own
expressions.

[[track-beat-expression]]
== Beat Expression

Called whenever a beat packet is received from a player that is
playing this track, as long as the track is enabled.

[[track-tracked-update-expression]]
== Tracked Update Expression

Called whenever a status update packet is received from a player that
has this track loaded, after the Enabled Filter Expression, if any,
has had a chance to decide if the track is enabled, and after the
Loaded, Playing, Stopped, or Unloaded expression, if appropriate.

If the track is not enabled, this expression is not called.

[[track-stopped-expression]]
== Stopped Expression

This is called when the last player that had been playing the track
stops. (The same track might be playing on multiple players at the
same time; this expression is called only when the final player stops
playing it, so it is no longer playing on any player.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the track’s Playing
Message menu is set to `Custom`.

A track will also report stopping if it becomes disabled while it was
playing.

To complete the example introduced in the Playing Expression
<<track-playing-expression,above>>, here is an expression that sends
the same MIDI event when a track stops that you get by setting the
menu:Playing Message[] menu to `Note`:

[source,clojure]
----
(when midi-output
  (midi/midi-note-off midi-output playing-note (dec playing-channel)))
----

As described in the initial example
<<track-playing-expression,above>>, this checks to be sure the MIDI
output device that has been selected for the track is currently
connected before sending it a Note Off message for the configured note
and channel. Again, you can tweak this to send different messages. For
example, you might actually want to send a different Note On message
when the track stops playing; for that, you would use the same code
shown in the <<track-playing-expression,Playing Expression>> section.

[[track-unloaded-expression]]
== Unloaded Expression

This is called when the track is unloaded from the last player that
had loaded it. (The same track might be loaded into multiple players
at the same time; this expression is called only when the final player
unloads it, so it is no longer loaded in any player.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the track’s
menu:Loaded Message[] menu is set to `Custom`.

A track will also report unloading if it becomes disabled while it was
loaded.

[[track-shutdown-expression]]
== Shutdown Expression

This is run when the Show file is closed, either because you closed
the window, or because Beat Link Trigger is shutting down. You can use
it to close any network connections or clean up any other resources
your Setup Expression allocated.
