doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Expressions_PhraseTrigger.adoc, before:

= Phrase Trigger Expressions
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Each phrase trigger you add to a show can have its own set of
expressions which apply to that phrase trigger, allowing you to take
actions when the phrase trigger starts or stops playing (because it
has been succesfully matched to a playing phrase), or as part of
deciding whether it should match a phrase, and how likely it should be
chosen if it a Solo phrase trigger in competition with other matched
phrase triggers. To react to more specific regions of the phrase trigger, see
the <<Expressions_ShowCue.adoc#,Cue Expressions, above>>.

The phrase trigger expressions can be accessed from the phrase
trigger’s <<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#context-menu,context menu>>. In
addition to the `globals` and `trigger-globals` atoms and `show` value
described above, these have access to a very similar `locals` atom
which can be used to share values across expressions within the phrase
trigger itself (but not other phrase triggers; each gets its own
`locals` map), a `phrase` value that contains everything Beat Link
Trigger <<ShowInternals.adoc#phrase-contents,knows about the phrase
trigger>>, and individual kinds of expressions will automatically have
other values available to them which make sense in the context in
which the expression is used.

TIP: The help text below the expression editor will list and explain
the values that are automatically available for use in that kind of
expression.

[[setup-expression]]
== Setup Expression

This is run when the Show file is opened, either because you
explicitly opened it using the Triggers window menu:File[] menu, or
because Beat Link Trigger automatically reopened it at launch because
you had it open the last time you used the program. You can use it to
open network connections or set up other values for this phrase
trigger and its cue expressions to use.

[[enabled-filter-expression]]
== Enabled Filter Expression

The basic concept of an Enabled Filter is described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#editing-expressions,introduction>> to the
Expressions section; phrase triggers use them in a similar way. If the
phrase trigger’s menu:Enabled[] menu is set to Custom, it will run its
Enabled Filter Expression to decide what to do. If your expression
returns a `true` value, this phrase trigger will be enabled as a
candidate to activate during the current phrase; otherwise it will be
disabled and not considered.

In cases where you want to enable the phrase trigger you can also
determine the _weight_ that should be used if it is a Solo phrase
trigger in competition with other Solo phrase triggers to start
playing (phrase triggers which are marked to Blend always activate
when they are enabled, so weights do not matter for them). To do this,
instead of simply returning `true`, return a number from 1 to 1000.
The higher the number, the greater the chance that this phrase trigger
will be chosen. (You can think of the weight value as the number of
raffle tickets that the phrase trigger has purchased.) Returning
`true` is equivalent to returning `1`.

Disabled phrase triggers do not activate, and all of their configured
cues are disabled.

In your Enabled Filter expression, if you want to build logic on top
of the kind of decisions that the phrase trigger UI offers, there are
some convenience variables made available to you which describe the
phrase that is currently playing:

`phrase-type`:: A keyword which identifies the type of phrase it has
been analyzed to be, corresponding to the options you can choose in
the <<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#phrase-picker,phrase picker>>. For
tracks in a “low” mood, this will be one of `:low-intro`,
`:low-verse-1`, `:low-verse-2`, `:low-bridge`, `:low-chorus`, or
`:low-outro`.
+
If the track was analyzed as a “mid” mood, it will be
one of `:mid-intro`, `:mid-verse-1`, `:mid-verse-2`, `:mid-verse-3`,
`:mid-verse-4`, `:mid-verse-5`, `:mid-verse-6`, `:mid-bridge`,
`:mid-chorus`, or `:mid-outro`.
+
And if the track has a “high” mood, it
will be one of `:high-intro-1`, `:high-intro-2`, `:high-up-1`,
`:high-up-2`, `:high-up-3`, `:high-down`, `:high-chorus-1`,
`:high-chorus-2`, `:high-outro-1`, or `:high-outro-2`.

`phrase-beat-range`:: A tuple (two-element vector) holding the beat
numbers within the track at which the phrase begins and ends.

`phrase-structure`:: The
https://deepsymmetry.org/cratedigger/apidocs/org/deepsymmetry/cratedigger/pdb/RekordboxAnlz.SongStructureEntry.html[`SongStructureEntry`]
object describing everything we have been able to decode about the
phrase.

`track-bank`:: A keyword identifying the lighting bank the DJ assigned
to the track, corresponding to the options you can choose in the
<<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#bank-picker,bank picker>>. Will be one of
`:club-1`, `:club-2`, `:cool`, `:hot`, `:natural`, `:subtle`,
`:vivid`, or `:warm`.

[[playing-expression]]
== Playing Expression

This is called when the phrase trigger activates because it was
enabled and chosen for a phrase that is playing. (The same phrase
trigger might be activated for phrases that are playing on multiple
players at the same time; this expression is called only when the
first phrase activates it. The phrase trigger will continue to be
considered playing until the final phrase it is activated for ends or
stops playing or stops matching the Enabled Filter expression.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the phrase
trigger’s menu:Playing Message[] menu is set to `Custom`.

As an example, here is a Playing Expression that would do the exact
same thing as setting the phrase trigger's menu:Playing Message[] menu
to `Note`:

[source,clojure]
----
(when midi-output
  (midi/midi-note-on midi-output playing-note 127 (dec playing-channel)))
----

The `(when midi-output …)` clause that wraps the `midi-note-on` call
just protects against the situation where the chosen output can’t be
found because it isn’t plugged in at the moment. Without this, the
attempt to send the note will throw an exception that gets written at
length to the log file. In the context of this Expression, the
`midi-output` variable is set to the MIDI output device chosen for the
phrase trigger, and will be `nil` if that device is not currently
connected.

This uses the embedded MIDI library to send a Note On message to the
phrase trigger's chosen output device. The variable `playing-note` is
set to the note number chosen for the phrase trigger's Playing
Message, `127` is the maximum MIDI note velocity, and
`playing-channel` is set to the channel chosen for the phrase trigger,
but since the user interface displays MIDI channel numbers in the
traditional user-centric range from 1 to 16, and the actual protocol
requires them to be sent in the 4-bit range 0-15, we need to subtract
1 from the variable value before sending it, which is what the `dec`
(decrement) function does.

You can tweak this to send different notes (by substituting your own
value or variable for `playing-note`) at different velocities (by
replacing the `127`) on different channels, or of course do something
else completely. The Stopped discussion <<stopped-expression,below>>
shows what you would need to set up to emulate the other half of the
`Note` mode using your own expressions.

[[beat-expression]]
== Beat Expression

Called whenever a beat packet is received from a player that is
playing a phrase that activated this phrase trigger.

[[tracked-update-expression]]
== Tracked Update Expression

Called whenever a status update packet is received from a player that
is playing a phrase that activated this phrase trigger, after the
Enabled Filter Expression, if any, has had a chance to decide that the
phrase trigger is enabled, and after the Playing expression, if
appropriate.


[[stopped-expression]]
== Stopped Expression

This is called when the last player that had been playing a phrase
that activated the phrase trigger stops, or moves past the phrase. (A
phrase which activated this phrase trigger might be playing on
multiple players at the same time; this expression is called only when
the final player stops playing one, so it is no longer playing on any
player.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the phrase
trigger’s Playing Message menu is set to `Custom`.

A phrase trigger will also report stopping if it becomes disabled
while it was playing.

To complete the example introduced in the Playing Expression
<<playing-expression,above>>, here is an expression that sends the
same MIDI event when a phrase trigger stops that you get by setting
the menu:Playing Message[] menu to `Note`:

[source,clojure]
----
(when midi-output
  (midi/midi-note-off midi-output playing-note (dec playing-channel)))
----

As described in the initial example <<playing-expression,above>>, this
checks to be sure the MIDI output device that has been selected for
the phrase trigger is currently connected before sending it a Note Off
message for the configured note and channel. Again, you can tweak this
to send different messages. For example, you might actually want to
send a different Note On message when the phrase trigger stops
playing; for that, you would use the same code shown in the
<<playing-expression,Playing Expression>> section.

[[shutdown-expression]]
== Shutdown Expression

This is run when the Show file is closed, either because you closed
the window, or because Beat Link Trigger is shutting down. You can use
it to close any network connections or clean up any other resources
your Setup Expression allocated.

Commit message:

Document new section convenience variable.

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Expressions_PhraseTrigger.adoc, after:

= Phrase Trigger Expressions
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Each phrase trigger you add to a show can have its own set of
expressions which apply to that phrase trigger, allowing you to take
actions when the phrase trigger starts or stops playing (because it
has been succesfully matched to a playing phrase), or as part of
deciding whether it should match a phrase, and how likely it should be
chosen if it a Solo phrase trigger in competition with other matched
phrase triggers. To react to more specific regions of the phrase trigger, see
the <<Expressions_ShowCue.adoc#,Cue Expressions, above>>.

The phrase trigger expressions can be accessed from the phrase
trigger’s <<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#context-menu,context menu>>. In
addition to the `globals` and `trigger-globals` atoms and `show` value
described above, these have access to a very similar `locals` atom
which can be used to share values across expressions within the phrase
trigger itself (but not other phrase triggers; each gets its own
`locals` map), a `phrase` value that contains everything Beat Link
Trigger <<ShowInternals.adoc#phrase-contents,knows about the phrase
trigger>>, and individual kinds of expressions will automatically have
other values available to them which make sense in the context in
which the expression is used.

TIP: The help text below the expression editor will list and explain
the values that are automatically available for use in that kind of
expression.

[[setup-expression]]
== Setup Expression

This is run when the Show file is opened, either because you
explicitly opened it using the Triggers window menu:File[] menu, or
because Beat Link Trigger automatically reopened it at launch because
you had it open the last time you used the program. You can use it to
open network connections or set up other values for this phrase
trigger and its cue expressions to use.

[[enabled-filter-expression]]
== Enabled Filter Expression

The basic concept of an Enabled Filter is described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#editing-expressions,introduction>> to the
Expressions section; phrase triggers use them in a similar way. If the
phrase trigger’s menu:Enabled[] menu is set to Custom, it will run its
Enabled Filter Expression to decide what to do. If your expression
returns a `true` value, this phrase trigger will be enabled as a
candidate to activate during the current phrase; otherwise it will be
disabled and not considered.

In cases where you want to enable the phrase trigger you can also
determine the _weight_ that should be used if it is a Solo phrase
trigger in competition with other Solo phrase triggers to start
playing (phrase triggers which are marked to Blend always activate
when they are enabled, so weights do not matter for them). To do this,
instead of simply returning `true`, return a number from 1 to 1000.
The higher the number, the greater the chance that this phrase trigger
will be chosen. (You can think of the weight value as the number of
raffle tickets that the phrase trigger has purchased.) Returning
`true` is equivalent to returning `1`.

Disabled phrase triggers do not activate, and all of their configured
cues are disabled.

In your Enabled Filter expression, if you want to build logic on top
of the kind of decisions that the phrase trigger UI offers, there are
some convenience variables made available to you (in phrase trigger
expressions other than the Setup, Stopped and Shutdown) which describe
the phrase that is currently playing:

[[phrase-convenience-variables]]
`phrase-type`:: A keyword which identifies the type of phrase it has
been analyzed to be, corresponding to the options you can choose in
the <<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#phrase-picker,phrase picker>>. For
tracks in a “low” mood, this will be one of `:low-intro`,
`:low-verse-1`, `:low-verse-2`, `:low-bridge`, `:low-chorus`, or
`:low-outro`.
+
If the track was analyzed as a “mid” mood, it will be
one of `:mid-intro`, `:mid-verse-1`, `:mid-verse-2`, `:mid-verse-3`,
`:mid-verse-4`, `:mid-verse-5`, `:mid-verse-6`, `:mid-bridge`,
`:mid-chorus`, or `:mid-outro`.
+
And if the track has a “high” mood, it
will be one of `:high-intro-1`, `:high-intro-2`, `:high-up-1`,
`:high-up-2`, `:high-up-3`, `:high-down`, `:high-chorus-1`,
`:high-chorus-2`, `:high-outro-1`, or `:high-outro-2`.

`phrase-beat-range`:: A tuple (two-element vector) holding the beat
numbers within the track at which the phrase begins and ends.

`phrase-structure`:: The
https://deepsymmetry.org/cratedigger/apidocs/org/deepsymmetry/cratedigger/pdb/RekordboxAnlz.SongStructureEntry.html[`SongStructureEntry`]
object describing everything we have been able to decode about the
phrase.

`track-bank`:: A keyword identifying the lighting bank the DJ assigned
to the track, corresponding to the options you can choose in the
<<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#bank-picker,bank picker>>. Will be one of
`:club-1`, `:club-2`, `:cool`, `:hot`, `:natural`, `:subtle`,
`:vivid`, or `:warm`.

`section`:: A keyword identifying which part of the phrase trigger is
currently playing. Will be one of `:start`, `:loop`, `:end`, or (when
a fill section is present in the phrase) `:fill`.


[[playing-expression]]
== Playing Expression

This is called when the phrase trigger activates because it was
enabled and chosen for a phrase that is playing. (The same phrase
trigger might be activated for phrases that are playing on multiple
players at the same time; this expression is called only when the
first phrase activates it. The phrase trigger will continue to be
considered playing until the final phrase it is activated for ends or
stops playing or stops matching the Enabled Filter expression.)

The convenience variables <<#phrase-convenience-variables,listed
above>> are available here as well.

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the phrase
trigger’s menu:Playing Message[] menu is set to `Custom`.

As an example, here is a Playing Expression that would do the exact
same thing as setting the phrase trigger's menu:Playing Message[] menu
to `Note`:

[source,clojure]
----
(when midi-output
  (midi/midi-note-on midi-output playing-note 127 (dec playing-channel)))
----

The `(when midi-output …)` clause that wraps the `midi-note-on` call
just protects against the situation where the chosen output can’t be
found because it isn’t plugged in at the moment. Without this, the
attempt to send the note will throw an exception that gets written at
length to the log file. In the context of this Expression, the
`midi-output` variable is set to the MIDI output device chosen for the
phrase trigger, and will be `nil` if that device is not currently
connected.

This uses the embedded MIDI library to send a Note On message to the
phrase trigger's chosen output device. The variable `playing-note` is
set to the note number chosen for the phrase trigger's Playing
Message, `127` is the maximum MIDI note velocity, and
`playing-channel` is set to the channel chosen for the phrase trigger,
but since the user interface displays MIDI channel numbers in the
traditional user-centric range from 1 to 16, and the actual protocol
requires them to be sent in the 4-bit range 0-15, we need to subtract
1 from the variable value before sending it, which is what the `dec`
(decrement) function does.

You can tweak this to send different notes (by substituting your own
value or variable for `playing-note`) at different velocities (by
replacing the `127`) on different channels, or of course do something
else completely. The Stopped discussion <<stopped-expression,below>>
shows what you would need to set up to emulate the other half of the
`Note` mode using your own expressions.

[[beat-expression]]
== Beat Expression

Called whenever a beat packet is received from a player that is
playing a phrase that activated this phrase trigger.

The convenience variables <<#phrase-convenience-variables,listed
above>> are available here as well.


[[tracked-update-expression]]
== Tracked Update Expression

Called whenever a status update packet is received from a player that
is playing a phrase that activated this phrase trigger, after the
Enabled Filter Expression, if any, has had a chance to decide that the
phrase trigger is enabled, and after the Playing expression, if
appropriate.

The convenience variables <<#phrase-convenience-variables,listed
above>> are available here as well.


[[stopped-expression]]
== Stopped Expression

This is called when the last player that had been playing a phrase
that activated the phrase trigger stops, or moves past the phrase. (A
phrase which activated this phrase trigger might be playing on
multiple players at the same time; this expression is called only when
the final player stops playing one, so it is no longer playing on any
player.)

NOTE: If you want this expression to run, make sure the phrase
trigger’s Playing Message menu is set to `Custom`.

A phrase trigger will also report stopping if it becomes disabled
while it was playing.

To complete the example introduced in the Playing Expression
<<playing-expression,above>>, here is an expression that sends the
same MIDI event when a phrase trigger stops that you get by setting
the menu:Playing Message[] menu to `Note`:

[source,clojure]
----
(when midi-output
  (midi/midi-note-off midi-output playing-note (dec playing-channel)))
----

As described in the initial example <<playing-expression,above>>, this
checks to be sure the MIDI output device that has been selected for
the phrase trigger is currently connected before sending it a Note Off
message for the configured note and channel. Again, you can tweak this
to send different messages. For example, you might actually want to
send a different Note On message when the phrase trigger stops
playing; for that, you would use the same code shown in the
<<playing-expression,Playing Expression>> section.

[[shutdown-expression]]
== Shutdown Expression

This is run when the Show file is closed, either because you closed
the window, or because Beat Link Trigger is shutting down. You can use
it to close any network connections or clean up any other resources
your Setup Expression allocated.
