= Pangolin BEYOND Essentials
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

To use the power of the PangoTalk UDP server, you need a BEYOND
Advanced license. But even with just BEYOND Essentials, you can use
MIDI mapping to achieve basic tempo synchronization and cue triggering
with Beat Link Trigger. Here are some pointers about how to do that.

== MIDI and Windows

Because BEYOND Essentials runs on Windows, which has no built-in
support for routing MIDI between applications on the same machine or
over the network, you need to add some other software to allow Beat
Link Trigger to send MIDI to it.

Single Machine:: If you are running both programs on the same machine,
you can use http://www.nerds.de/en/loopbe1.html[LoopBe1] to create a
virtual MIDI port that Beat Link Trigger can use to send messages to
BEYOND Essentials.

Networked Machines:: If you want to run Beat Link Trigger on a
different machine than BEYOND Essentials, then you can use
http://www.tobias-erichsen.de/software/rtpmidi.html[rtpMIDI] to send
MIDI messages between them. (If both machines are Windows, you need to
install rtpMIDI on each one. If you are running Beat Link Trigger on a
Mac, it already has native Core MIDI network support, which rtpMIDI is
designed to be compatible with.)

See the documentation of LoopBe1 and/or rtpMIDI for instructions on
how to install, configure, and use it.

== Connecting to BEYOND Essentials

Once the virtual or network MIDI port is available on the machine that
BEYOND is running on, you need to connect it as one of the MIDI
devices that BEYOND is watching. Open up the MIDI Devices settings by
choosing menu:Settings[MIDI>Device Settings...] Here, the new LoopBe
virtual port has been chosen for input and output as Device 1 within
Beyond:

image:LoopBeDevice1.png[LoopBe Internal MIDI chosen for Device
1, 498, 612]

Click btn:[OK] and the device will be available as a source of MIDI
messages.

== Tempo to BEYOND via MIDI

To enable Beat Link Trigger to adjust BEYOND’s tempo using MIDI Clock
messages, right-click on the metronome at the top of the BEYOND
window, and click the btn:[Enable MIDI input to set BPM] button in the
contextual menu that appears:

image:BeyondEnableBPM.png[Enabling MIDI to set BPM,404,579]

Once that is done, you can configure a Trigger in Beat Link Trigger to
send MIDI output to the device that BEYOND is listening to, and set
the Message menu to Clock, so it will send MIDI Clock messages to
communicate the current BPM:

image:BeyondClockTrigger.png[Clock Trigger for BEYOND,806,202]

+++<img src="_images/BeyondMIDIsynced.png" width="162" height="104"
style="float:right" alt="BEYOND synced to MIDI Clock">+++
Once that trigger activates, the BPM display in BEYOND will turn
yellow and will track the tempo of the track that activated the
trigger, although not quite as precisely as it can using the PangoTalk
server, since MIDI clock is a less direct way of communicating it.

If you don’t want Beat Link Trigger to send Start or Stop messages
when the trigger activates and deactivates, you can uncheck the
corresponding check boxes in the trigger row. You may want to
experiment to see how BEYOND responds to them, or ask an expert in
BEYOND MIDI integration.

== Triggering Laser Cues via MIDI

Once you have the MIDI connection established, getting cues to run
when triggers are active is fairly straightforward. You just have to
assign each trigger a unique MIDI Note or Controller number, and then
map that to the appropriate cue cell in BEYOND.

The screen capture below shows the addition of a basic MIDI Note
trigger to the clock trigger from the previous example. This new
trigger will send a MIDI Note On message for note 125 on channel 1
when the trigger activates, and the corresponding Note Off message
when it deactivates:

image:BeyondMIDITrigger.png[Beyond MIDI Trigger,814,298]

To tie that to a cue cell in BEYOND, choose
menu:Settings[MIDI>"(device)" settings...], picking the name of the
device that you connected in order to receive MIDI messages from Beat
Link Trigger:

image:BeyondPortSettings.png[Beyond MIDI Device Settings,574,449]

That will open a window that gives you access to a great many MIDI
mapping options, allowing you to cause BEYOND to react to incoming
MIDI events in different ways. For much more information about it, see
the BEYOND MIDI Settings manual section, accessible through
menu:Help[Documentation>Settings>MIDI settings]. In this example we’ll
just take a quick look at mapping the first cue cell to respond to the
Beat Link Trigger we have just created. To do that, click the
btn:[Configure...] button for the Main Grid MIDI surface:

image:BeyondMIDIMapping.png[Beyond MIDI Mapping,502,671]

This section allows you to set the MIDI messages which BEYOND will
interpret as a mouse down or mouse up event in each of the cue cells.
If you happen to know that the MIDI message we chose above corresponds
to the hexadecimal numbers `90 7d 7f` for the Note 125 On (with
velocity 127) and `80 7d 00` for the Note 125 Off, you could
double-click in those cells and enter the values directly. Far more
likely, you will select the Cell Down box for the cell you want the
trigger to affect, then click the btn:[Learn 1+2] button, and while
BEYOND is in Learn mode, activate and deactivate the trigger in Beat
Link Trigger. The Learn 1+2 command tells BEYOND to watch for the next
two MIDI events and enter them into the grid cells for you:

image:BeyondMIDILearn.png[Beyond MIDI Main Grid,770,271]

Once you have that mapping set up, whenever Beat Link Trigger reports
that the trigger is activated, BEYOND will act as though you have
clicked the mouse in the first cue cell, and when the trigger is
deactivated, BEYOND will act as though you have released the mouse. In
order to have cues end when triggers deactivate, you will want to put
BEYOND into Flash mode:

image:BeyondFlashMode.png[Beyond Flash Cue Mode,706,206]

Alternately, if you want to leave it in the default Toggle mode, you
could use a custom Deactivation Expression in Beat Link Trigger to
send another Note On message when the trigger deactivates.

If you just jumped to this section to get a look at how to get BEYOND
to respond to CDJs, and you think it will be useful, you will want to
go back and read this entire user guide to get a better understanding
of how to make your triggers activate for just the portions of the
tracks that you want them to. And again, this barely scratches the
surface of MIDI mapping in BEYOND; see the BEYOND documentation and
Pangolin forums for more information about that.
