= OBS Overlays for Twitch Streaming
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

For some time now people have been using Beat Link Trigger to add fun
elements to mixes streamed on Twitch by creatively screen-grabbing
parts of the <<Players.adoc#,Player Status window>> (and the
<<Players.adoc#waveform-windows,large waveform windows>> feature was
added to support that). But for even longer, there has been a request
to enable custom overlays based on data from Beat Link, and this is
finally possible.

By opening menu:Network[OBS Overlay Web Server] you can configure and
launch an embedded web server that renders an HTML template that can
contain the content of your choice, arranged and styled however you
like, to work with the
https://obsproject.com/forum/resources/browser-plugin.115/[Browser
Plugin] that is bundled with https://obsproject.com[OBS Studio].

image:ObsOverlay.png[OBS Overlay Server Window,560,250]

The **Server Port** spinner allows you to choose the port on which the
web server will operate. You can pick any port that is not in use; the
default of 17,081 is likely to work just fine. The **Run** checkbox
starts and stops the server. Once it is running you can click **Open
in Browser** to take a look at how the configured template renders the
current player state, and to give you an easy way to copy the overlay
URL from the browser address bar for pasting into OBS Studio.

Beat Link Trigger ships with a default template that is served unless
you specify your own templates folder, which you can do by clicking
**Choose** on the **Templates Folder** row. It will allow you to
navigate to and select any folder your system, as long as there is a
readable `overlay.html` file in that folder. This file will be used as
the template rendered by the overlay server. It can reference other
templates in that folder using whatever names you give them, either by
<<tag-extends,extending>> or <<tag-include,including>> them, as
discussed below.

Once you have chosen a templates folder, that is stored in your
preferences, and it will automatically be used the next time you run
Beat Link Trigger (unless the folder no longer contains a readable
`overlay.html`, in which case a warning will be displayed when you
open this window, and the default template will be used again).

In designing your template, you are likely to want to use graphics,
fonts, CSS, and possibly scripts and other resources. If these are
already on the Internet, you can reference them using URLs in your
template. But if you want to access them locally, you can gather them
all into any folder, and configure that as a **Public Folder** for the
overlay server by clicking the **Choose** button in that row, and
navigating to and selecting that folder. Once you have done that, any
file in that folder can be referenced from your template simply by
using a URL of the format `/public/` followed by the filename. So for
example if you have a file `logo.png` in your public folder, a
template can use it by referencing the URL `/public/logo.png`.

Just like the templates folder, your chosen public folder is stored in
the preferences, and will be used on subsequent runs of Beat Link
Trigger until you choose a different folder, or it can no longer be
found.

NOTE: Although you can set the same folder as your Templates Folder
and Public Folder, this is not recommended, because it will expose
your raw templates. In that configuration, accessing
`/public/overlay.html` will serve the overlay template without
performing any of the variable substitutions that add information
about the tracks currently playing. Beat Link Trigger will let you set
things up this way, but will warn you when you do.

[#writing-template]
== Writing Templates

Hopefully eventually users will be sharing templates on the
https://github.com/Deep-Symmetry/beat-link-trigger/wiki[Wiki], and you
can download them to use, but until then (or if you want to make
changes to one you have downloaded), you’ll use your favorite text
editor to create and edit overlay templates, which are HTML files that
get processed by https://github.com/yogthos/Selmer#selmer[Selmer], so
you can interpolate all kinds of information about the current tracks
being played.

TIP: While these instructions cover most of the features that will be
useful in the context of Beat Link Trigger, you can learn more about
the basics of the templating language by looking at the
https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/ref/templates/language/[Django
documentation], but keep in mind some details are quite different in
Selmer and Beat Link Trigger. You can also consult the
https://github.com/yogthos/Selmer#selmer[Selmer] documentation for
details about how its template language differs from Django, and to
learn about filters and tags that didn't make the cut for explaining
here, but that document is aimed at Clojure programmers adding Selmer
to their projects, so it might be a little hard to follow.

[#variables]
== Variables

Variables allow you to insert information from the current state of
your players into the template.

Template variables look like this: `{{ variable }}`. When Selmer
encounters a variable like this, it looks up the value of that
variable, and inserts the value into the template in place of the
variable. There are many variables available to you, which are
described just below, and you can also examine their actual values for
the current state of your players by clicking the **Inspect Template
Parameters** button when the overlay server is running:

image:ObsParams.png[OBS Overlay Template Parameters,530,890]

Notice that the variables are grouped into a hierarchy. You specify
the value you want by starting at the outer name, and separating names
at each level with `.`, so at the moment captured by the above screen
shot, if your template contained `{{ players.2.pitch-display }}` the
value `- 3.40%` is what would appear in the overlay, showing the
current pitch value displayed on Player 2.

You can expand sections of the parameter inspector by clicking on the
kbd:[+] buttons, and collapse them by clicking on the kbd:[-] buttons,
or simply double-click on those rows to toggle the expanded state.

Some variables may not be in the exact format that you want to display
them, but you can use <<filters,Filters>> to reformat them in flexible
ways. And other variables may not be something you want to display at
all, but you can use them to control which sections of your template
are displayed using <<tags,Tags>>.

TIP: You can start the overlay server even if Beat Link Trigger is not
currently online with a DJ Link network. When you do that, it will
serve simulated data for two players, with Gareth Emery’s _Concrete
Angel_ loaded in player 1 and Lindsey Stirling’s _Transcendence_ in
player 2, so you can work on your template design even when you don’t
have actual player hardware handy. Even though those are the only two
simulated tracks available, you can configure them to be in more or
different players if your template design requires; ask for help on
the https://gitter.im/brunchboy/beat-link-trigger[Gitter channel] if
you are interested in doing that.

.Top Level Variables
[cols="1l,4",options="header"]
|===
|Variable
|Value

|collections
|Present when there are any computers or mobile devices running rekordbox on the network, this holds the device numbers assigned to each, and under each device number, the <<player-state,Player State>> of that rekordbox instance. Values are accessed like `{{ collections.17.name }}`.

|master
|Present if there is currently a Tempo Mater on the network, this holds the <<player-state,Player State>> of that player. Values are accessed like `{{ master.track.title }}`.

|mixers
|Present if there are any DJM mixers (or an XDJ-XZ) on the network, this holds the device numbers of each mixer, and under each device number, the <<player-state,Player State>> of that mixer. Values are accessed like `{{ mixers.33.name }}`.

|players
|Holds the device numbers of player on the network, and under each device number, the <<player-state,Player State>> of that player. Values are accessed like `{{ players.1.track.title }}`.

|===

NOTE: Not all values will always be present. Some devices (like mixers and rekordbox) provide very little information, and even CDJs will only provide full details when a reordbox-analyzed track is loaded. Even then, most DJs do not fill in all details about tracks. When information is not available, an entry may be entirely missing, or it may simply have an empty value.

[#player-state]
=== Player State

.Player State Contents
[cols="1l,4",options="header"]
|===
|Element
|Value

|address
|The IP address at which the player can be found on the network.

|beat-number
|The beat currently playing, if known. The first beat of the track is beat 1, and they increment steadily from there.


|beat-within-bar
|Tracks progress through measures of the song. The first (down) beat of a measure has the value 1, then it grows to 4 before jumping back to 1 at the start of the next bar.

|cue-countdown
|Tracks how many beats remain until the next hot cue or memory point in the track. If there are no cues left in the track, or if the next one is more than 64 bars from now, this has the value `511`. If there is a cue coming up within 64 bars (256 beats), this will count down those beats, from the value 256 to 0, meaning we have reached the cue. As soon as the next beat arrives, it will start tracking the next hot cue or memory point.

|cue-countdown-display
|This interprets the value of the `cue-countdown` reported by the player, showing how it appears on the player display. The value `511` is displayed as “`--.-`” (meaning “no information”), while values representing a countdown show two digits of bars, a decimal point, and the number of beats (1 through 4). So it starts at “`63.4`” at the furthest possible distance, then counts down to “`00.1`” on the final beat before the cue, and “`00.0`” when it is reached.

|firmware-version
|Reports the version of the firmware running the player.

|is-at-end
|Indicates whether the player has reached the end of its track and stopped playing.

|is-bpm-only-synced
|Indicates that the player was in Sync mode, but the DJ has nudged the jog wheel to adjust track alignment, so it is now only following the tempo of the master player, and is no longer slaved to the precise beat locations the master is reporting.

|is-busy
|Indicates if the player is currently playing, loading, or searching a track.

|is-cued
|Indicates whether the player is paused at the current Cue point.

|is-looping
|Indicates whether the player is repeating a loop.

|is-on-air
|Indicates that the player is attached to a live mixer channel (one that is currently audible in the mix). This works only with DJM mixers, and when properly configured.

|is-paused
|Indicates that the player is waiting for the DJ to start playback.

|is-playing
|Indicates that the player is currently playing a track.
p
|is-playing-backwards
|Indicates that the player is playing a track in Reverse mode.

|is-playing-cdj-mode
|Indicates that the player is currently playing a track and the jog wheel is set to CDJ mode.

|is-playing-forwards
|Indicates that the player is currently playing a track and Reverse mode is not active.

|is-playing-vinyl-mode
|Indicates that the player is currently playing a track and the jog wheel is set to Vinyl mode.

|is-searching
|Indicates that the DJ is currently fast-forwarding or rewinding through a track.

|is-synced
|Indicates that the player is staying aligned to the tempo and beats of the current Tempo Master.

|is-tempo-master
|Indicates that the player has been set as the current tempo master, so any players in Sync (or BPM-Only Sync) are following it.

|is-track-loaded
|Indicates that there is a track loaded in the player.

|kind
|Either `:collections`, `:mixers`, or `:players`, used to group players in their proper top-level variable.

|name
|The name reported by the player, e.g. “CDJ-2000nexus”, “XDJ-XZ”.

|number
|The channel number assigned to the player.

|pitch
|The current playback pitch adjustment. Zero means normal speed, 100 means double speed (100% faster), -100 means slowed to a stop. This is a floating point value, so you will probably want to <<filter-double-format,format it>>.

|pitch-display
|Reflects the way the current `pitch` value is displayed on the player: a `+` or `-` sign followed by a formatted percentage, with 1 or 2 digits after the decimal point. (Normal speed is shown without a sign, as “0.00%”.)

|pitch-multiplier
|A convenient way to relate the playback pitch to track tempo. Normal speed is 1.0, and multiplying this value by `track-bpm` is how `tempo` is calculated.

|tempo
|The current effective tempo of the track: the natural track tempo adjusted by the current playback pitch. Can be calculated by multiplying `track-bpm` and `pitch-multiplier`.

|time-played
|How much time of the track has been played. (This reflects distance into the track when played at normal speed; it will move slower or faster than real time if the playback pitch has been adjusted.) This is a <<time-value,Time Value>> with multiple parts used like `{{ master.time-played.minutes }}` or `{{ players.3.time-played.display }}`.

|time-remaining
|How much time of the track is left to play. (This reflects how long it would take when played at normal speed; it will move slower or faster than real time if the playback pitch has been adjusted.) This is a <<time-value,Time Value>> with multiple parts used like `{{ master.time-remaining.raw-milliseconds }}` or `{{ players.2.time-played.frames }}`.

|track
|Another multi-part value, holding <<track-details,Track Details>> about the currently loaded rekordbox track.

|track-bpm
|The natural tempo of the current section of the track; this is how many beats per minute would be heard when played at normal speed.

|track-number
|The position of the track within its playlist, or menu category, or CD.

|track-source-player
|The channel number of the player (or rekordbox instance) from which the track was loaded.

|===


[#time-value]
=== Time Values

.Time Value Contents
[cols="2l,7",options="header"]
|===
|Element
|Value

|display
|The full time details as displayed on a player, formatted as mm:ss:ff.f (`minutes`, `seconds`, `frames`, and `frame-tenths`).

|frame-tenths
|The current half-frame being played. (There are 75 frames played per second, and the players track position by half-frame, so this alternates between the values `0` and `5`.)

|frames
|How many frames have been played (or remain) in the current second, ranges from `0` to `74`.

|minutes
|How many minutes have been played (or remain).

|raw-milliseconds
|This is the value that is used to compute all the others. It starts at zero at the beginning of the track, and counts up by a thousand for each second played. (For remaining time, it counts down from the length of the track to zero.)

|seconds
|How many seconds have been played (or remain) in the current minute, ranges from `0` to `59`.

|===


[#track-details]
=== Track Details

.Track Detail Contents
[cols="1l,4",options="header"]
|===
|Element
|Value

|added
|When the track was added to the DJ's collection, a date in the form `yyyy-mm-dd`.

|album
|The title of the album to which the track belongs.

|artist
|The name of the performer of the track.

|color
|The CSS color code (`#rrggbb`) of the color the DJ assigned the track.

|color-name
|The name of the color the DJ assigned the track.

|comment
|The comment string the DJ wrote about the track.

|duration
|How long, in seconds, the track will play at normal speed.

|genre
|The musical genre the DJ assigned the track.

|id
|The rekordbox ID that identifies the track in the current database.

|key
|The musical key of the track.

|label
|The recording label that issued the track.

|original-artist
|The artist who first recorded the track.

|rating
|The star rating (0-5) the DJ assigned the track.

|remixer
|The person who remixed this track.

|slot
|The slot from which the track was loaded (`No Track`, `CD Slot`, `SD Slot`, `USB Slot`, or `rekordbox`).

|starting-tempo
|How many beats per minute are heard at the start of the track, when played at normal speed.

|title
|The name of the track itself.

|type
|The kind of track that was loaded (`No Track`, `CD Digital Audio`, `rekordbox`, or `Unanalyzed`).

|year
|When the track was recorded.

|===


[#filters]
== Filters

You can change the way variables are displayed by using filters.

Template filters look like this: `{{ master.track.title|lower }}`. Use
a vertical bar (`|`) between a value and the filter you want to apply
to it. This example displays the value of the `master.track.title`
variable modified by the <<filter-lower,`lower` filter>>, which
converts text to lower-case.

Some filters take arguments that adjust their behavior. Use a colon
(`:`) to introduce a filter argument. The
<<filter-abbreviate,`abbreviate` filter>> makes sure a value fits in a
maximum number of characters. Suppose the master player is playing the
Skrillex track _With You, Friends (Long Drive)_. We can make sure it
fits in twenty characters in our template like so:

    {{ master.track.title|abbreviate:20 }}

This would insert `With You, Friends...` into the template.

Filters can take multiple arguments, in which case you will have
multiple colons in between them.

Filters can also be “chained”: you can apply another filter to the
result of the previous one. Just add another `|` and type the next
filter. So, with the same track playing, we could write:

    {{ master.track.title|lower|abbreviate:20 }}

And this would insert `with you, friends...` into the template.

TIP: If your filter argument is a string, and it has any spaces in it,
you need to quote it. See the <<filter-default,`default` filter>> for
an example.

Here are the filters you are most likely fo find useful. The full list
can be found in the
https://github.com/yogthos/Selmer#built-in-filters-1[Selmer
documentation].

[#filter-abbreviate]
=== abbreviate

Abbreviate the input string to given width if it exceeds a maxium
width. If only a maximum width is given, abbreviated and maximum width
are the same. The first parameter is the maximum width, the optional
second parameter the abbreviated width.

You can control where the abbreviation happens by putting an
`abbr-left`, `abbr-middle`, or `abbr-right` filter before the
`abbreviate` filter. You can also use something other than `...` as
the abbreviation indicator by putting and `abbr-ellipsis` filter with
an argument containing the indicator you want to use in front of the
`abbreviate` filter. These special `abbr-` filters can only be used
just before an `abbreviate` filter.

[#filter-add]
=== add

Adds the value and all the filter's arguments together. If they are
all numbers, calculates their sums. If any is a non-numeric string,
concatenates the arguments. There are also `multiply` and `divide`
filters which take only a single argument, and perform the
corresponding arithmetic operation on the value (they only work with
numbers).

[#filter-count]
=== count, count-is

`count` counts the letters in a string, or the number of elements in a
collection (such as the players). `count-is` checks whether that count
matches its argument. You can use it with the <<tag-if,`if` tag>> to
conditionally display content if there are a certain number of players
on the network, for example:

```html
{% if players|count-is:4 %}
<p>All Players are in use!</p>
{% endif %}
```

[#filter-default]
=== default

Allows you to specify a value to display when a variable is empty or
missing. Normally, in such situations the variable just disappears
from the template (it is replaced by an empty string). If there is no
track loaded on player 2, this expression will result in the string
`No track`:

    {{ players.2.track.title|default:"No track" }}

Notice that we had to quote the filter's argument because our value
had a space in it.

[#filter-double-format]
=== double-format

Rounds a number to a specified number of decimal places. This is
useful when working with pitch values, since we usually only want two
places after the decimal point:

    {{ master.pitch|double-format:2 }}

There is also a `round` filter which rounds all the way to the nearest
integer, and `number-format` which lets you use a
https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Formatter.html#syntax[Java
format string] to get full control of the way you format the number,
even specifying an ISO-639 two-letter locale specifier as its second
argument.

[#filter-empty]
=== empty?, not-empty

Check whether the specified value is empty or not (both filters return
`true` or `false`). These are again useful combined with the
<<tag-if,`if` tag>> to conditionally render content:

```html
{% if players|empty? %}
<p>No Players Found!</p>
{% endif %}
```

[#filter-lower]
=== lower

Convert a value to lower-case.

[#filter-upper]
=== upper

Convert a value to upper-case. (There are also two variants:
`capitalize` converts only the first character to upper-case, while
`title` converts the first letter of each word to upper-case.)

[#filter-replace]
=== replace

Takes two string arguments, and replaces any instances of the first
string found in the value with the second string.

[#filter-sort]
=== sort

Sorts the elements of the value. You will generally want to apply this
filter when you are <<tag-for,looping>> over the values in `players`
because they are otherwise not going to necessarily be in numerical
order.


[#tags]
== Tags

Tags allow you to get fairly sophisticated with your templates,
supporting things like looping and conditionals. There are two
fundamental variants: simple, inline tags like `include` or `extends`,
which exist on their own, and more complex tags which affect text in
between them (and may include intermediate tags), like `if`, `else`,
and `endif`.

Here are the tags you are most likely fo find useful. The full list
can be found in the
https://github.com/yogthos/Selmer#built-in-tags-1[Selmer
documentation].

[#tag-if]
=== if

Conditionally renders the body only if the argument is true.

    {% if players.3.is-on-air %}
    <img src="/public/on-air.png">
    {% else %}
    <img src="/public/off-air.png">
    {% endif %}

You can reverse the meaning of the conditional argument by preceding
it with the `not` operator, or combine multiple conditional arguments
with the `all` or `any` operators. You can also perform numeric
comparisons using the `=`, `<`, `>`, `\<=`, and `>=` operators, or
string comparison using `=`.

    {% if players|count < 4 %}Another player can be connected!{% endif %}

(Notice that the above example shows that <<filters,filters>> can be
applied to the conditions.)

In addition to the `if`, `else` and `endif` tags, you can have as many
`elif` tags as you need between the `else` and `endif`, meaning “else
if”. For more examples, see the
https://github.com/yogthos/Selmer#if[Selmer documentation].

[#tag-for]
=== for

Loops over each item in an array or map, making the item available in
a variable of your choice inside the loop. Beat Link Trigger uses
nested maps rather than arrays for its template parameters, and you
can loop over entries in the map assigning the key and value of each
entry to separate variables:

    {% for number, player in players|sort %}
    <p>{{ number }}: {{ player.track.title }}--{{player.track.artist }}</p>
    {% endfor %}

The above example loops over all the players that are found on the
network. Each time through the loop, `number` is set to the channel
number of the player and `player` is set to the map of parameters
describing the state of that player, so the loop outputs a paragraph
for each player, showing the channel number, a colon, the title of the
track being played on that player, and the artist that recorded it.

Notice that the body of the loop is ended by an `endfor` tag, and that
we were able to use the `sort` filter on the `players` map to make
sure we got them in order of increasing channel number.

After the `endfor` tag, the `number` and `player` variables introduced
by the loop go away.

You can also place an `empty` tag between `for` and `endfor`, and the
content within that section will be rendered if the variable you were
trying to loop over had no values:

    {% for number, player in players|sort %}
    <p>{{ number }}: {{ player.track.title }}--{{ player.track.artist }}</p>
    {% empty %}
    <p>No players found!</p>
    {% endfor %}

In addition to the variables you requested, the `for` tag always adds
several others that allow you to respond to or display additional
information about the looping process:

.Special Loop Variables
[cols="3l,7",options="header"]
|===
|Variable
|Description

|forloop.counter
|Holds the number of this iteration of the loop, starting at 1 the first time through.

|forloop.counter0
|Holds the number of this iteration of the loop, starting at 0 the first time through.

|forloop.revcounter
|Starts at `forloop.length` and counts down to 1 for each iteration of the loop.

|forloop.revcounter0
|Starts at `forloop.length`−1 and counts down to 0 for each iteration of the loop.

|forloop.first
|Is `true` if this is the first iteration of the loop.

|forloop.last
|Is `true` if this is the final iteration of the loop.

|forloop.length
|Holds the number of times the loop will iterate.

|forloop.parentloop
|If this loop is nested inside another `for` loop, you can access the outer loop's special variables using (for example) `forloop.parentloop.counter`.
|===


[#tag-cycle]
=== cycle

Picks the next value from a list of values each time through a loop.
Here is an example of this tag combined with the <<tag-for,`for` tag>>
to create a list item for the player number and track title of each
player found on the network, and alternating the CSS classes of each
between `blue` and `white`:

    <ul>
    {% for number, player in players|sort %}
    <li class={% cycle "blue" "white" %}>
      {{ number }}: {{ player.track.title }}
    </li>
    {% endfor %}
    </ul>

[#tag-include]
=== include

Replaces itself with the contents of the referenced template.

   {% include "player.html" %}

[#tag-block]
=== block

Specifies a block of content that can be overwritten using
https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/ref/templates/language/#template-inheritance[template
inheritance].

    {% block track-information %}This will be replaced.{% endblock %}

[#tag-extends]
=== extends

This tag is used to reference a parent template, which provides the
outer structure that gets rendered. The <<tag-block,blocks>> in the
parent are recursively overridden by the blocks from child templates,
using
https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.0/ref/templates/language/#template-inheritance[template
inheritance].


[#graphics-resources]
== Graphics Resources

TODO: List and explain the URLs you can use to obtain track artwork and waveforms.

[#json-parameters]
== JSON Parameters

If you are more comfortable developing your overlay in the style of a
JavaScript Single-Page Application, the server supports that too.
Whenever your page requests the URL `/params.json`, it sends a JSON
response containing all the current template parameters. You can set
up a timeout function to retrieve them at whatever frame rate you
would like to update your template, and your code can process the
results and render itself as desired.
