= Phrase Triggers
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Starting in version 7, we gained the ability to take advantage of
phrase analysis information in tracks, if the DJ has added that. In
addition to adding useful information along the bottom of track
waveforms, this enabled the creation of a major new feature for
running attractive light shows even for tracks that you have not been
able to build custom cues for.

This is achieved by adding Phrase Triggers to your show, which allow
you to arrange cues that look good whenever a particular phrase type
is played, timed to the beginning, middle, ending, and fill-in section
(if there is one) of the phrase. You can fine tune which of your
triggers are used for which types of phrases, and assign weights so
that when multiple alternatives exist, one is chosen more or less
often than another.

NOTE: This page is an early draft, describing the new phrase triggers
feature, and is being used to refine the design.

The phrase triggers will come below all the tracks in the show. Their
rows may be a slightly different color to make them stand out, but
they will be structurally so different that may not even be necessary.

image:ShowWithPhrases.png[Show window with phrase rows,450,400]

As of now, the only item I can think of for the new Phrases menu is
"New Phrase Trigger", which will create a new phrase trigger row and
scroll it into view. Phrase triggers will be kept in the order they
are created, and probably don't need to show numbers like the original
Triggers window, they can be identified by UUID instead like cues, to
make it easier to cope with deletions.

The Filter text field will also filter phrase triggers (by their
comment), and the Loaded Only check box will cause only active phrase
triggers to be visible in the window.

[[exclusivity]]
== Exclusivity

* Tracks get a new button (probably a small icon left of the Playing
  and right of the waveform preview, at the level of the phrase
  strip), which appears only when the track has phrase analysis, and
  there is at least one phrase trigger. This allows the track to
  prevent phrase triggers from running when it plays (probably a
  locked icon, and the default), or allow them (unlocked? musical
  notes?)

* If the track playing is not in the show, the phrase triggers are
  always allowed to run. If the track is part of the show, it gets to
  decide whether they run or not, since it may well have its own cues
  which are more tailored to the track than random phrase triggers
  would be.

* Phrase triggers themselves have different levels of exclusivity. The
  default is "Solo in show", but can also be "Solo across all shows",
  or "Blend".

* When a new phrase starts, all phrase triggers in all open shows are
  examined to see which are enabled for that trigger (see
  <<enabling-weighting,below>> for details).

* Enabled triggers are grouped by exclusivity, and first any "Solo
  across all shows" triggers are considered. A random one is chosen
  and activated.

* Then, for each open show, the "Solo in show" triggers in that show
  are considered. If there was a "Solo across all shows" trigger
  activated, and it came from this show, then none of the "Solo in
  show" triggers will activate, because there is already a trigger
  from this show running. However, if the active trigger was in
  another show, it won't stop these from running. (If you wanted them
  to be prevented from running in this circumstance, you would have
  marked them as solo across all shows. In most cases, each show will
  be used to run triggers for a different purpose, e.g. a show for
  videos, a show for lights, a show for lasers, and so their triggers
  will not conflict.) Again, an enabled trigger is chosen at random,
  taking the weighting into account, and activated.

* Finally, for each open show, all "Blend" triggers that are enabled
  for the phrase are activated; they run regardless of other triggers.

[[enabling-weighting]]
== Enabling and Weighting

To decide which phrase triggers should be considered when a phrase
starts, there are a number of filters that can be applied.

image:PhraseTriggerRows.png[Phrase trigger rows,924,292]

* The most obvious is that you can select which phrase types this
  trigger works with, <<phrase-picker,picking one or more>> of the
  phrases in each of the three moods.

* You can do the same kind of filtering by <<bank-picker,deciding
  which track banks>> you want this trigger to match on.

* You can also set a minimum and/or a maximum phrase length.

* You can set a minimum and/or maximum BPM.

* And you can assign a weight, from 1 to 1,000, that adjusts how
  likely this trigger is likely to be picked among all the triggers
  which are enabled.

> Is there any other simple phrase or track characteristic that might
  be useful as a default filter?

[[phrase-picker]]
Clicking the Phrase Types button brings up a picker window like this:

image:PhraseTypePicker.png[Phrase type picker,492,336]

[[bank-picker]]
And clicking on the Track Banks button brings up similar picker:

image:TrackBankPicker.png[Track bank picker,198,285]

If you want to do more sophisticated filtering than that, you can
swich to "custom" enabled filtering, in which case BLT will call an
expression when the phrase is starting, and pass you the phrase and
track and player status, and you can write code to use any logic you
want to decide if the trigger should be enabled. If you return a
number, that will be rounded to the nearest integer, and if it is
positive the trigger will be enabled, with a weight corresponding to
the number you returned (clipped to 1,000 as an upper bound, again).
If you return anything other than a number, if it is truthy, the
trigger will be enabled, with a weight of 1, and if it is falsy, the
trigger will be disabled.

[[messages-cues]]
== Messages and Cues

At the level of the entire phrase, the phrase trigger will have a
Playing and Stopped message, which can be configured as MIDI or a
custom expression. When a trigger is enabled as a phrase begins, and
chosen (if it is solo), the Playing message is sent. When the end of
the phrase is reached (or the player stops, or the DJ jumps out of the
phrase), the Stop message is sent.

However, the real power of phrases for building creative shows is that
they will provide a canvas on which you can draw cues, just like
tracks.

[[editing-cues]]
=== Editing Cues

Just like with tracks, you can open a cues editor window for each
phrase trigger, to see the four sections of the trigger, with the
sizes you have chosen for them (although if you set the start or end
sections to zero bars, those will not be visible). The window looks
like this:

image:PTCuesEditor.png[Phrase Trigger Cues Editor window,942,401]

It provides a canvas on which you can drag to paint cues, like you can
on the track waveform in a track cues editor window, but there is no
waveform here because the trigger could activate for phrases in
different places in one or many tracks. The canvas represents an
entire phrase for which the trigger has activated.

As noted above, the phrase will be divided into sections, whose sizes
you get to choose at the top of the window. The size you choose will
determine the size of the portion of canvas on which you can place
cues for each section of the phrase trigger:

* Start, which gets lined up with the beginning of the phrase in the
  track, and can contain zero or more bars, identified by a green
  stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

* Loop, which gets stretched (looped) or shrunk as needed to fill up
  the middle of the phrase in the track, and can contain one or more
  bars, identified by a blue stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

* End, which gets lined up with the end of the phrase in the track
  (before the fill-in section, if there is one), and can contain zero
  or more bars, identified by a red stripe at the bottom of the cue
  canvas.

* Fill-in, which gets stretched (looped) or shrunk as needed to cover
  the fill-in section of the phrase, if there is one, identified by a
  purple stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

If the actual phrase is smaller than the sizes you have picked for
your canvas, first the end of the Loop section is taken out of
consideration, until that section is entirely gone. Then, the end of
the End section is eaten away, until that entire section is gone, and
finally the end of the Start section is eaten away until it fits the
actual phrase. (As noted above, if you don't want this kind of
shrinking to occur, you can configure your phrase trigger to only be
enabled when the phrase is longer than a certain number of bars.)

Unlike in a track cues editor window, the New Cue button (and the
library menu options for adding new cues) will only be enabled once
you have painted a location for the cue on the canvas, because
otherwise there is no way to tell in which section the cue should be
created. Each cue can exist in a single section only, and its start
and end beats are measured from the start of that section.

Once cues have been added to a section, you can no longer shrink that
section to a size where any of its cues would no longer fit. So if you
want to shrink a section, you will need to first delete any cues in
the part that you want to eliminate.

Much like you can see where the playheads of the players are in the
cue editor, you will be able to watch them move through the cue canvas
of your phrase trigger. If the phrase is long, and so the loop section
is looping, you will see this happen, until the end is reached, at
which point the playhead will jump to that section.

Cues have all the same properties and expressions as they do in
tracks, and share the same cue library, but their positions are
computed relative to the start of the phrase which activated them, and
taking into account any looping or shrinking needed to make the
trigger fit the actual phrase.

To help identify the sections in which each cue exists, its row in the
cues editor has a stripe at the top which matches the color of the
section.
