doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Shows.adoc, before:

= Shows
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Version 0.5 of Beat Link Trigger introduced a major new set of user
interface features called the Show interface, developed in
collaboration with https://www.minnmusic.com[Minnesota], which make it
far easier to match tracks, and cause things to happen when particular
beat ranges in those tracks are played.

All of these things could be done before the Show interface (and
several people put together quite sophisticated shows) using basic
Triggers, but they involved writing a great many custom Expressions to
match the tracks and watch for the right beats, and were very tedious
to figure out, requiring lots of time hooked up to CDJs during the
design process.

NOTE: Version 7 of BLT takes this to a whole new level, by letting you
work with the Phrase Analysis feature in rekordbox to design
<<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#,Phrase Trigger>> cues that work with any
track the DJ has performed phrase analysis on, even with older players
that don't support the Lighting feature. This lets you offer a whole
array of attractive, well-synchronized lighting looks even for DJs
that you are unable to coordinate with ahead of time.

Also, there is a practical limit to how many Triggers you can have in
your file, because each one gets considered in sequence whenever a
packet is received from a player. The limit may be a few dozen, or
many more, but eventually your CPU will be get busy just evaluating
triggers. The Show interface doesn’t have this limitation--it uses a
sophisticated and efficient mechanism for recognizing tracks, and
allows you to add thousands of tracks to your Shows. Tracks in a Show
will not put any load on your CPU until they are actually loaded in a
player.

Finally, because tracks can be added to a Show either from players on
the network, or by reading them directly from your rekordbox USB or SD
media, you can set up your Shows, draw cues on the tracks’ beat grids,
with reference to their waveforms, and configure the messages you want
the cues to send, even in situations where you don’t have access to
CDJs. Almost all of the Show interface features are fully functional
when Beat Link Trigger is operating in Offline mode, and the ones that
don’t make sense are simply hidden from view. This supports a flexible
and convenient workflow.

TIP: If you are managing your own tracks rather than working with one
or more DJs, and just need a few cues triggered by MIDI notes when
particular tracks reach particular places, you might be able to do
something even easier than creating a show. Check out how to
<<Integration_MIDI_rekordbox.adoc#,translate rekordbox cues to MIDI>>.

[[creating]]
== Creating a Show

To use the Show interface, you start by choosing menu:File[New Show]
in the Beat Link Triggers window.

image:NewShow.png[New Show option,189,156]

This opens a Save dialog where you choose the location and name of
your new Show file. Navigate to where you would like to keep it, type
a name, and click kbd:[Save].

image:NewShow2.png[New Show Save dialog,660,460]

Beat Link Trigger will create a new, empty Show file for you with your
chosen name, and open its window. If you quit with a Show window open,
it will automatically be reopened the next time you start the program.
You can have multiple Show windows open at the same time, in case you
want to organize your cues into separate groups for controlling
different kinds of integrations (such as perhaps laser cues in one
Show, and video cues in another) and each one will be reopened
automatically and run independently. You can tailor which Shows you
open based on which hardware is being used for a given performance.

image:NewShowWindow.png[Empty Show window,793,418]

[[opening-shows]]
.Opening Shows
[TIP]
====
Whenever a show is open, it is active (although if your tracks'
Enabled Filters are configured to their `Default` setting, then you
can turn them all off by choosing menu:Enabled Default[Never] at the
top of the show). You can deactivate it by closing the window. Beat
Link Trigger will automatically reopen any shows that were open the
last time you quit. If you manually closed a show window but want to
activate it now, or you want to open a new show that you received or
downloaded, you can open it by choosing menu:File[Open Show] in the
Beat Link Triggers window and navigating to the show file.
====

[[show-window-header-elements]]
== Show Window Header Elements

At the top of the Show window, above any Tracks or Phrase Triggers
that you have added to it, is a header that allows you to configure
the default Enabled filter (explained
<<#enabled-default,below>>), and to filter which Tracks
and Phrase Triggers are currently visible, which is helpful when you
have added a lot of them to the Show.

If you type any text in the `Filter` box, only tracks and phrase
triggers that match that text will be visible. If you want to restrict
your view to only tracks, you can enter `track:` as the start of your
filter text, and any phrase triggers will disappear. (You can further
narrow the search by typing additional text, and only tracks which
match that text will be visible). To see only phrase triggers, enter
`phrase:` as the start of your filter text.

Similarly, if you check the `Loaded Only` checkbox, only tracks that
are currently loaded on a player on the network will be visible, and
only phrase triggers that match a playing phrase and have been chosen
for activation will be visible. This is a great way to narrow down
your focus to watch what is going on with tracks the DJ is currently
playing.

TIP: The `Loaded Only` checkbox is only visible when Beat Link Trigger
is Online (or you are <<SimulatingPlayback.adoc#,simulating
playback>>), because otherwise there is no way tracks could be
identified as loaded.

[[show-menu-bar]]
=== Show Menu Bar

The Show window has its own menu bar with commands that apply to the
Show as a whole.

Beat Link Trigger automatically saves the Show when you exit normally,
but if you are concerned that your computer might crash and want to
avoid the risk of losing data, you can manually save it by choosing
menu:File[Save]. You can also save a copy to a different file at any
time using menu:File[Save a Copy].

image:ShowFileMenu.png[Show File Menu,263,155]

Choosing menu:File[Expression Report] opens a browser window holding a
<<Expressions_Report.adoc#,report>> that provides a powerful and
convenient way of exploring, managing, and simulating all of the
expressions that you are using in the show. To use the full power of
this report you need to choose menu:File[Enable Report Actions], but
you should only do this on a trusted network, because any other
machine on the network will then be able to trigger simulations of
your expressions, or manipulate the Beat Link Trigger interface in the
ways the report can.

If you want to stop working with a show, and don’t want Beat Link
Trigger to automatically open it the next time you launch the program,
choose menu:File[Close].

The menu:Tracks[] Menu allows you to add tracks to the show, as
discussed in the <<Shows.adoc#adding-tracks,next section>>, and to
edit expressions that customize the show as a whole, as described in
the <<Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc#,Expressions section>>.

image:ShowTracksMenu.png[Show Tracks Menu,320,200]

The menu:Inspect Expression Locals[] option allows you to explore any
values that have been set up by expressions to share across the entire
Show. See <<Debugging.adoc#inspecting,Inspecting Locals and Globals>> for
more details.

The menu:Help[] Menu is the same as in the Triggers window, providing
a variety of helpful information and shortcuts for getting support.

=== Enabled Default

Each track can have its own <<Shows_Tracks.adoc#enabled-menu,Enabled
filter>>, which determines whether the show will react to players
doing things with the track. Often, every track in the show will want
to follow the same rules, so you can configure those rules using the
show's Enabled Default setting, and leave each track's Enabled filter
set to `Default`. Any tracks which have more specific needs can switch
their Enabled filter to a different setting.

If the track's Enabled filter is set to `Default`, the value of the
Show's Enabled Default filter is used. It has the following options:

Never:: With this setting, the Track is disabled until you re-enable
it.

On-Air:: With this setting, the Track is enabled whenever it is loaded
by at least one player that reports that it is On the Air. (For that
to work, the player must be connected via Ethernet to a Pioneer mixer
that is from the Nexus generation or later, and must have the feature
turned on.)
+
TIP: If you work with a DJ who likes to fade out his tracks to coax
the audience into singing along, you might be interested in using the
<<Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc#show-default-enabled-filter-expression,example
Custom Default Enabled Filter Expression>> rather than this setting.

Master:: With this setting, the Track is enabled whenever it is loaded
by the player that is the current Tempo Master.

Custom:: With this setting, the Track is controlled by an Enabled
Filter, Clojure code that you write yourself. Whenever a status update
is received from any player, your expressions are evaluated. If the
last expression in your filter returns a `true` value, the Track will
be enabled. This lets you apply sophisticated logic, like enabling the
Track when another track is loaded into a different player, or only
during particular times of day. Expressions are further explained in
the
<<Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc#show-default-enabled-filter-expression,Expressions>>
section. If you choose `Custom` and have not yet written an Enabled
Default Filter expression, the expression editor will be opened to let
you do that. You can always open that editor using the Tracks
Menu, described <<show-menu-bar,above>>.

Always:: With this setting, the Track is enabled until you disable
it.

[[adding-tracks]]
== Adding Tracks to a Show

Shows don’t do anything until they include at least one Track. There
are a number of different ways you can add Tracks to your Show. Most
of them can be found by choosing menu:Tracks[Import Track] in the Show
window menu bar:

image:ImportTrack.png[Import Track menu,790,568]

=== Adding Tracks from a Player

If you are currently Online, and there are any players on the network
that have rekordbox tracks loaded that are not already part of the
Show, you will see them as options in the menu. Choosing
menu:Tracks[Import Track>from Player 2] (for example) will download
that track from the player, and add everthing needed to work with the
it to the Show file (the elements of a Track row are explained
<<Shows_Tracks.adoc#,below>>, after the other ways of adding
them to a Show).

image:FirstTrackLoaded.png[First track loaded into Show,1009,466]

To help avoid confusion, rather than simply having the player
disappear from the list of import choices if the track it has loaded
is already part of the Show, the menu option is disabled and an
explanation is added:

image:ImportTrackAlready.png[Track already in Show,990,435]

[[disconnected-tracks]]
[TIP]
====
You should finish making any adjustments to your tracks in rekordbox,
including fine-tuning their beat grids, _before_ you add them to your
show. Beat Link Trigger recognizes tracks by
https://deepsymmetry.org/beatlink/apidocs/org/deepsymmetry/beatlink/data/SignatureFinder.html[calculating
a “signature”] that includes such details. If you change any of these
things after importing the track, it will no longer be recognized, and
your cues and other expressions will not work.

If this happens, you can import the new version of the track,
<<copying-track-contents,copy the contents>> of the old version of the
track in your show into the new one, then remove the old version.
====

=== Adding Tracks from Offline Media

To make it possible to set up your Show even when you don’t have
access to your player network, you can also import Tracks directly
from rekordbod USB or SD media. To do that, mount the media on your
computer, and choose menu:Tracks[Import Track>from Offline Media]. An
Choose Media dialog will appear, from which you can navigate to the
media:

image:ChooseMedia.png[Choose Media dialog,526,369]

Once you click kbd:[Choose Media], the exported database is parsed,
and a Choose Track window is presented, which is very similar to the
<<Players.adoc#loading-playing,Loading and Playing Tracks>> interface
offered by the Player Status window (see that section for details
about how to navigate the interface and use the Search feature):

image:ShowChooseTrack.png[Choose Track dialog,720,518]

Once you have found the Track you are looking for, click kbd:[Choose
Track] to add it to the Show.

image:SecondTrackLoaded.png[Second track loaded into Show,1005,589]

TIP: To save time, once you have chosen media to load tracks from
during a Beat Link Trigger session, your media choice is remembered
(and the parsed database export is kept open), so the next time you
choose to import from offline media, the media selection window is
skipped and you are taken right to the track selection window. If you
want to import from different media, click the kbd:[Change Media]
button at the bottom of the window. This also means you will not be
able to eject the media on most operating systems because BLT has it
open; if you do need to eject it without quitting BLT, choose
menu:Tracks[Import Track>from Offline Media], click kbd:[Change
Media], and it will be closed so you can eject it. At that point you
can click kbd:[Cancel] if you did not actually want to import a Track.

=== Copying Tracks between Shows

The final way to add a Track to a Show is to copy it from another
Show. When you have multiple Show windows open, you can copy Tracks
from one to another by finding the Track in the open Show that already
contains it, then choosing menu:Copy to Show “<name>”[] in the Track’s
context menu:

image:CopyTrack.png[Copy Track to Show,995,645]

TIP: If you don’t see an open Show in the `Copy to` list, that means
the Track is already present in the other Show.

[[copying-track-contents]]
=== Copying Track Contents

Although the cues you have created in a track are likely to be very
specific to that track, there are times you might want to copy all the
configuration, expressions, and cues you have set up in one track to
another.

One situation where this is certain to be useful is if you have made
changes to your track after you imported it into the show, and this
has caused it to <<disconnected-tracks,stop being recognized>>. In
that case, you can import the track again, and copy the content from
the old version to the new version before deleting the old version.

There are other situations where this might be useful as well. Even if
the tracks are different enough that you will need to move the cues
around a lot, copying the overall track configuration, expressions, and
sometimes even cues can save you time.

To copy the contents of a track, hold down the kbd:[Shift] key while
bringing up the Track context menu (clicking on the gear icon or
right-clicking in the track row outside the waveform). This will bring
up a special menu:

image:CopyTrackContent.png[Copy Track Content,515,196]

Once you have chosen menu:Copy Track Content[] on a track, when you
use kbd:[Shift] to bring up this menu again on a track (in this show
or any other), the option to paste that content will be enabled.

Choosing menu:Paste Track Content[] will bring up a confirmation
dialog because this is a destructive process which cannot be undone
(unless you have saved a backup copy of your show):

image:ReplaceTrackContent.png[Replace Track Content,740,240]

If you click **OK**, all of the destination track's configuration (MIDI
Output, Messages, Channel, and Enabled Default), its expressions, and
its cues (including their own configuration and expressions) will be
replaced by the ones that you copied earlier. Any cues that would
extend past the end of the new track will be cropped to end on its
final beat, and any which would have started after the end of the
track will simply be removed.

You can then proceed to adjust the cue positions if needed, and tweak
other details to make the track work the way you want it to.

Commit message:

Document importing playlists from offline media.

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Shows.adoc, after:

= Shows
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Version 0.5 of Beat Link Trigger introduced a major new set of user
interface features called the Show interface, developed in
collaboration with https://www.minnmusic.com[Minnesota], which make it
far easier to match tracks, and cause things to happen when particular
beat ranges in those tracks are played.

All of these things could be done before the Show interface (and
several people put together quite sophisticated shows) using basic
Triggers, but they involved writing a great many custom Expressions to
match the tracks and watch for the right beats, and were very tedious
to figure out, requiring lots of time hooked up to CDJs during the
design process.

NOTE: Version 7 of BLT takes this to a whole new level, by letting you
work with the Phrase Analysis feature in rekordbox to design
<<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#,Phrase Trigger>> cues that work with any
track the DJ has performed phrase analysis on, even with older players
that don't support the Lighting feature. This lets you offer a whole
array of attractive, well-synchronized lighting looks even for DJs
that you are unable to coordinate with ahead of time.

Also, there is a practical limit to how many Triggers you can have in
your file, because each one gets considered in sequence whenever a
packet is received from a player. The limit may be a few dozen, or
many more, but eventually your CPU will be get busy just evaluating
triggers. The Show interface doesn’t have this limitation--it uses a
sophisticated and efficient mechanism for recognizing tracks, and
allows you to add thousands of tracks to your Shows. Tracks in a Show
will not put any load on your CPU until they are actually loaded in a
player.

Finally, because tracks can be added to a Show either from players on
the network, or by reading them directly from your rekordbox USB or SD
media, you can set up your Shows, draw cues on the tracks’ beat grids,
with reference to their waveforms, and configure the messages you want
the cues to send, even in situations where you don’t have access to
CDJs. Almost all of the Show interface features are fully functional
when Beat Link Trigger is operating in Offline mode, and the ones that
don’t make sense are simply hidden from view. This supports a flexible
and convenient workflow.

TIP: If you are managing your own tracks rather than working with one
or more DJs, and just need a few cues triggered by MIDI notes when
particular tracks reach particular places, you might be able to do
something even easier than creating a show. Check out how to
<<Integration_MIDI_rekordbox.adoc#,translate rekordbox cues to MIDI>>.

[[creating]]
== Creating a Show

To use the Show interface, you start by choosing menu:File[New Show]
in the Beat Link Triggers window.

image:NewShow.png[New Show option,189,156]

This opens a Save dialog where you choose the location and name of
your new Show file. Navigate to where you would like to keep it, type
a name, and click kbd:[Save].

image:NewShow2.png[New Show Save dialog,660,460]

Beat Link Trigger will create a new, empty Show file for you with your
chosen name, and open its window. If you quit with a Show window open,
it will automatically be reopened the next time you start the program.
You can have multiple Show windows open at the same time, in case you
want to organize your cues into separate groups for controlling
different kinds of integrations (such as perhaps laser cues in one
Show, and video cues in another) and each one will be reopened
automatically and run independently. You can tailor which Shows you
open based on which hardware is being used for a given performance.

image:NewShowWindow.png[Empty Show window,793,418]

[[opening-shows]]
.Opening Shows
[TIP]
====
Whenever a show is open, it is active (although if your tracks'
Enabled Filters are configured to their `Default` setting, then you
can turn them all off by choosing menu:Enabled Default[Never] at the
top of the show). You can deactivate it by closing the window. Beat
Link Trigger will automatically reopen any shows that were open the
last time you quit. If you manually closed a show window but want to
activate it now, or you want to open a new show that you received or
downloaded, you can open it by choosing menu:File[Open Show] in the
Beat Link Triggers window and navigating to the show file.
====

[[show-window-header-elements]]
== Show Window Header Elements

At the top of the Show window, above any Tracks or Phrase Triggers
that you have added to it, is a header that allows you to configure
the default Enabled filter (explained
<<#enabled-default,below>>), and to filter which Tracks
and Phrase Triggers are currently visible, which is helpful when you
have added a lot of them to the Show.

If you type any text in the `Filter` box, only tracks and phrase
triggers that match that text will be visible. If you want to restrict
your view to only tracks, you can enter `track:` as the start of your
filter text, and any phrase triggers will disappear. (You can further
narrow the search by typing additional text, and only tracks which
match that text will be visible). To see only phrase triggers, enter
`phrase:` as the start of your filter text.

Similarly, if you check the `Loaded Only` checkbox, only tracks that
are currently loaded on a player on the network will be visible, and
only phrase triggers that match a playing phrase and have been chosen
for activation will be visible. This is a great way to narrow down
your focus to watch what is going on with tracks the DJ is currently
playing.

TIP: The `Loaded Only` checkbox is only visible when Beat Link Trigger
is Online (or you are <<SimulatingPlayback.adoc#,simulating
playback>>), because otherwise there is no way tracks could be
identified as loaded.

[[show-menu-bar]]
=== Show Menu Bar

The Show window has its own menu bar with commands that apply to the
Show as a whole.

Beat Link Trigger automatically saves the Show when you exit normally,
but if you are concerned that your computer might crash and want to
avoid the risk of losing data, you can manually save it by choosing
menu:File[Save]. You can also save a copy to a different file at any
time using menu:File[Save a Copy].

image:ShowFileMenu.png[Show File Menu,263,155]

Choosing menu:File[Expression Report] opens a browser window holding a
<<Expressions_Report.adoc#,report>> that provides a powerful and
convenient way of exploring, managing, and simulating all of the
expressions that you are using in the show. To use the full power of
this report you need to choose menu:File[Enable Report Actions], but
you should only do this on a trusted network, because any other
machine on the network will then be able to trigger simulations of
your expressions, or manipulate the Beat Link Trigger interface in the
ways the report can.

If you want to stop working with a show, and don’t want Beat Link
Trigger to automatically open it the next time you launch the program,
choose menu:File[Close].

The menu:Tracks[] Menu allows you to add tracks to the show, as
discussed in the <<Shows.adoc#adding-tracks,next section>>, and to
edit expressions that customize the show as a whole, as described in
the <<Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc#,Expressions section>>.

image:ShowTracksMenu.png[Show Tracks Menu,320,200]

The menu:Inspect Expression Locals[] option allows you to explore any
values that have been set up by expressions to share across the entire
Show. See <<Debugging.adoc#inspecting,Inspecting Locals and Globals>> for
more details.

The menu:Help[] Menu is the same as in the Triggers window, providing
a variety of helpful information and shortcuts for getting support.

=== Enabled Default

Each track can have its own <<Shows_Tracks.adoc#enabled-menu,Enabled
filter>>, which determines whether the show will react to players
doing things with the track. Often, every track in the show will want
to follow the same rules, so you can configure those rules using the
show's Enabled Default setting, and leave each track's Enabled filter
set to `Default`. Any tracks which have more specific needs can switch
their Enabled filter to a different setting.

If the track's Enabled filter is set to `Default`, the value of the
Show's Enabled Default filter is used. It has the following options:

Never:: With this setting, the Track is disabled until you re-enable
it.

On-Air:: With this setting, the Track is enabled whenever it is loaded
by at least one player that reports that it is On the Air. (For that
to work, the player must be connected via Ethernet to a Pioneer mixer
that is from the Nexus generation or later, and must have the feature
turned on.)
+
TIP: If you work with a DJ who likes to fade out his tracks to coax
the audience into singing along, you might be interested in using the
<<Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc#show-default-enabled-filter-expression,example
Custom Default Enabled Filter Expression>> rather than this setting.

Master:: With this setting, the Track is enabled whenever it is loaded
by the player that is the current Tempo Master.

Custom:: With this setting, the Track is controlled by an Enabled
Filter, Clojure code that you write yourself. Whenever a status update
is received from any player, your expressions are evaluated. If the
last expression in your filter returns a `true` value, the Track will
be enabled. This lets you apply sophisticated logic, like enabling the
Track when another track is loaded into a different player, or only
during particular times of day. Expressions are further explained in
the
<<Expressions_ShowGlobal.adoc#show-default-enabled-filter-expression,Expressions>>
section. If you choose `Custom` and have not yet written an Enabled
Default Filter expression, the expression editor will be opened to let
you do that. You can always open that editor using the Tracks
Menu, described <<show-menu-bar,above>>.

Always:: With this setting, the Track is enabled until you disable
it.

[[adding-tracks]]
== Adding Tracks to a Show

Shows don’t do anything until they include at least one Track. There
are a number of different ways you can add Tracks to your Show. Most
of them can be found by choosing menu:Tracks[Import Track] in the Show
window menu bar:

image:ImportTrack.png[Import Track menu,790,568]

=== Adding Tracks from a Player

If you are currently Online, and there are any players on the network
that have rekordbox tracks loaded that are not already part of the
Show, you will see them as options in the menu. Choosing
menu:Tracks[Import Track>from Player 2] (for example) will download
that track from the player, and add everthing needed to work with the
it to the Show file (the elements of a Track row are explained
<<Shows_Tracks.adoc#,below>>, after the other ways of adding
them to a Show).

image:FirstTrackLoaded.png[First track loaded into Show,1009,466]

To help avoid confusion, rather than simply having the player
disappear from the list of import choices if the track it has loaded
is already part of the Show, the menu option is disabled and an
explanation is added:

image:ImportTrackAlready.png[Track already in Show,990,435]

[[disconnected-tracks]]
[TIP]
====
You should finish making any adjustments to your tracks in rekordbox,
including fine-tuning their beat grids, _before_ you add them to your
show. Beat Link Trigger recognizes tracks by
https://deepsymmetry.org/beatlink/apidocs/org/deepsymmetry/beatlink/data/SignatureFinder.html[calculating
a “signature”] that includes such details. If you change any of these
things after importing the track, it will no longer be recognized, and
your cues and other expressions will not work.

If this happens, you can import the new version of the track,
<<copying-track-contents,copy the contents>> of the old version of the
track in your show into the new one, then remove the old version.
====

=== Adding Tracks from Offline Media

To make it possible to set up your Show even when you don’t have
access to your player network, you can also import Tracks directly
from rekordbod USB or SD media. To do that, mount the media on your
computer, and choose menu:Tracks[Import Track>from Offline Media]. An
Choose Media dialog will appear, from which you can navigate to the
media:

image:ChooseMedia.png[Choose Media dialog,526,369]

Once you click kbd:[Choose Media], the exported database is parsed,
and a Choose Track window is presented, which is very similar to the
<<Players.adoc#loading-playing,Loading and Playing Tracks>> interface
offered by the Player Status window (see that section for details
about how to navigate the interface and use the Search feature):

image:ShowChooseTrack.png[Choose Track dialog,720,518]

Once you have found the Track you are looking for, click kbd:[Choose
Track] to add it to the Show.

image:SecondTrackLoaded.png[Second track loaded into Show,1005,589]

[TIP]
====
To save time, once you have chosen media to load tracks from
during a Beat Link Trigger session, your media choice is remembered
(and the parsed database export is kept open), so the next time you
choose to import from offline media, the media selection window is
skipped and you are taken right to the track selection window. If you
want to import from different media, click the kbd:[Change Media]
button at the bottom of the window. This also means you will not be
able to eject the media on most operating systems because BLT has it
open; if you do need to eject it without quitting BLT, choose
menu:Tracks[Import Track>from Offline Media], click kbd:[Change
Media], and it will be closed so you can eject it. At that point you
can click kbd:[Cancel] if you did not actually want to import a Track.

If you have an entire playlist of tracks that you want to import into
a show, you can use the kbd:[Import Playlist] button to switch to an
interface which shows only playlists and allows you to choose one. If
you do so, a progress bar will provide feedback as the tracks from
that playlist are imported, and allow you to stop the process. If you
decide you only want to import a single track after all, prior to
choosing a playlist you can click kbd:[Import Single Track] to return
to the normal track selection interface.
====

=== Copying Tracks between Shows

The final way to add a Track to a Show is to copy it from another
Show. When you have multiple Show windows open, you can copy Tracks
from one to another by finding the Track in the open Show that already
contains it, then choosing menu:Copy to Show “<name>”[] in the Track’s
context menu:

image:CopyTrack.png[Copy Track to Show,995,645]

TIP: If you don’t see an open Show in the `Copy to` list, that means
the Track is already present in the other Show.

[[copying-track-contents]]
=== Copying Track Contents

Although the cues you have created in a track are likely to be very
specific to that track, there are times you might want to copy all the
configuration, expressions, and cues you have set up in one track to
another.

One situation where this is certain to be useful is if you have made
changes to your track after you imported it into the show, and this
has caused it to <<disconnected-tracks,stop being recognized>>. In
that case, you can import the track again, and copy the content from
the old version to the new version before deleting the old version.

There are other situations where this might be useful as well. Even if
the tracks are different enough that you will need to move the cues
around a lot, copying the overall track configuration, expressions, and
sometimes even cues can save you time.

To copy the contents of a track, hold down the kbd:[Shift] key while
bringing up the Track context menu (clicking on the gear icon or
right-clicking in the track row outside the waveform). This will bring
up a special menu:

image:CopyTrackContent.png[Copy Track Content,515,196]

Once you have chosen menu:Copy Track Content[] on a track, when you
use kbd:[Shift] to bring up this menu again on a track (in this show
or any other), the option to paste that content will be enabled.

Choosing menu:Paste Track Content[] will bring up a confirmation
dialog because this is a destructive process which cannot be undone
(unless you have saved a backup copy of your show):

image:ReplaceTrackContent.png[Replace Track Content,740,240]

If you click **OK**, all of the destination track's configuration (MIDI
Output, Messages, Channel, and Enabled Default), its expressions, and
its cues (including their own configuration and expressions) will be
replaced by the ones that you copied earlier. Any cues that would
extend past the end of the new track will be cropped to end on its
final beat, and any which would have started after the end of the
track will simply be removed.

You can then proceed to adjust the cue positions if needed, and tweak
other details to make the track work the way you want it to.
