doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc, before:

= Phrase Triggers
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Starting in version 7, we gained the ability to take advantage of
phrase analysis information in tracks, if the DJ has added that. In
addition to adding useful information along the bottom of track
waveforms, this enabled the creation of a major new feature for
running attractive light shows even for tracks that you have not been
able to build custom cues for.

This is achieved by adding Phrase Triggers to your show, which allow
you to arrange cues that look good whenever a particular phrase type
is played, timed to the beginning, middle, ending, and fill-in section
(if there is one) of the phrase. You can fine tune which of your
triggers are used for which types of phrases, and assign weights so
that when multiple alternatives exist, one is chosen more or less
often than another.

NOTE: This page is an early draft, describing the new phrase triggers
feature, and is being used to refine the design.

The phrase triggers will come below all the tracks in the show. Their
rows may be a slightly different color to make them stand out, but
they will be structurally so different that may not even be necessary.

image:ShowWithPhrases.png[Show window with phrase rows,450,400]

As of now, the only items I can think of for the new Phrases menu are
"`New Phrase Trigger`", which will create a new phrase trigger row and
scroll it into view, and "`Sort by Comments`". Unless you sort them,
Phrase triggers will be kept in the order they are created, and
probably don't need to show numbers like the original Triggers window,
which will make it easier to cope with deletions. The context menu for
each row (or a pair of buttons in the row, since it looks like there
will be plenty of room) will also allow you to move it up (unless it
is already the first phrase trigger) or down (unless it is the last).

The Filter text field will also filter phrase triggers (by their
comments), and the Loaded Only check box will cause only active phrase
triggers to be visible in the window.

[[exclusivity]]
== Exclusivity

Before even looking at the list of phrase triggers, any tracks that
are part of the show get to decide whether to allow phrase triggers to
run while they are playing. By default, tracks prevent this: in
general if a track has been added to the show, its custom cues will be
more appropriate than randomly-chosen phrase triggers.

Any track in the show for which phrase information is available will
have a small lock button just to the left of the phrase color bars in
the waveform preview. When it is locked (and red), that means that
phrase triggers are locked out for the track:

image:TrackPhraseLocked.png[Track with phrase triggers locked out,565,155]

Clicking the button toggles the phrase trigger lock, allowing phrase
triggers to run while the track plays:

image:TrackPhraseUnlocked.png[Track with phrase triggers allowed,565,155]

So, when a new phrase starts playing in a track, and it is time to
decide which phrase triggers to run:

* If the track playing is not present in the show, the phrase triggers
  are always allowed to run. If the track is part of the show, it gets
  to decide whether any phrase triggers run or not, as described
  above.

* Phrase triggers themselves have different levels of exclusivity. The
  default is "`Solo in show`", but can also be "`Solo across all
  shows`", or "`Blend`".

* When a new phrase starts, all phrase triggers in all open shows are
  examined to see which are enabled for that trigger (see
  <<enabling-weighting,below>> for details).

* Enabled triggers are grouped by exclusivity, and first any "`Solo
  across all shows`" triggers are considered. A random one is chosen
  and activated.

* Then, for each open show, the "`Solo in show`" triggers in that show
  are considered. If there was a "`Solo across all shows`" trigger
  activated, and it came from this show, then none of the "`Solo in
  show`" triggers will activate, because there is already a trigger
  from this show running. However, if the active trigger was in
  another show, it won't stop these from running. (If you wanted them
  to be prevented from running in this circumstance, you would have
  marked them as solo across all shows. In most cases, each show will
  be used to run triggers for a different purpose, e.g. a show for
  videos, a show for lights, a show for lasers, and so their triggers
  will not conflict.) Again, an enabled trigger is chosen at random,
  taking the weighting into account, and activated.

* Finally, for each open show, all "`Blend`" triggers that are enabled
  for the phrase are activated; they run regardless of other triggers.

[[enabling-weighting]]
== Enabling and Weighting

To decide which phrase triggers should be considered when a phrase
starts, there are a number of filters that can be applied.

image:PhraseTriggerEnabled.png[Phrase trigger Enabled choices,1164,159]

* The most obvious is that you can select which phrase types this
  trigger works with, <<phrase-picker,picking one or more>> of the
  phrases in each of the three moods a track can be assigned during
  phrase analysis.

* You can do the same kind of filtering by <<bank-picker,deciding
  which track banks>> you want this trigger to match on.

* You can also set a minimum and/or a maximum phrase length in bars.
  Phrases which are too long or too short will then not activate this
  phrase trigger.

* Similarly, you can set a minimum and/or maximum tempo in BPM, and if
  the track playing is too slow or too fast when it starts playing the
  phrase, it will not activate this phrase trigger.

* And you can assign a weight, from 1 to 1,000, that adjusts how
  likely this trigger is likely to be picked among all the triggers
  which are enabled.

[[phrase-picker]]
Clicking the btn:[Phrase Types] button brings up a picker window like
this:

image:PhraseTypePicker.png[Phrase type picker,555,499]

You can individually select which phrase types can activate the phrase
trigger, or you can turn entire mood columns off and on using the
btn:[None] and btn:[All] buttons at the bottom of the corresponding
column.

[[bank-picker]]
Clicking on the btn:[Track Banks] button brings up a similar picker:

image:TrackBankPicker.png[Track bank picker,291,329]

If you want to do more sophisticated filtering than that, you can
swich to "`Custom`" enabled filtering by choosing
menu:Enabled[Custom]. In this configuration BLT will call an
expression when a phrase is starting to play, and pass your filter
code the phrase, track and player status, and your code can use any
logic you like to decide if the trigger should be enabled.

If your filter returns a number, that will be rounded to the nearest
integer, and if it is positive the trigger will be enabled, with a
weight corresponding to the number you returned (clipped to 1,000 as
an upper bound, again). If your code returns anything other than a
number, if it is truthy, the trigger will be enabled, with a weight of
1, and if it is falsy, the trigger will be disabled.

When you are using a Custom Enabled filter, the bottom row of UI
elements in the phrase trigger row disappears, because your code is
making the decision instead of them. To go back to the simpler
approach, choose menu:Enabled[See Below] again, and they will reappear
and be used instead of your filter code.

[[messages-cues]]
== Messages and Cues

At the level of the entire phrase, the phrase trigger will have a
Playing and Stopped message, which can be configured as MIDI or a
custom expression. When a trigger is enabled as a phrase begins, and
chosen (if it is solo), the Playing message is sent. When the end of
the phrase is reached (or the player stops, or the DJ jumps out of the
phrase), the Stop message is sent.

However, the real power of phrases for building creative shows is that
they will <<editing-cues,provide a canvas>> on which you can draw
cues, just like tracks.

> TODO: This needs fleshing out, as noted above. Here are sections
  that are already required by cross-references from the Show
  Internals section:

Above the enabled configuration (if it is visible, because you have
not chosen to use a Custom enabled expression), you find the controls
that let you configure how you want the Show to respond to the phrase
trigger.

[[context-menu-button]]
=== Context Menu Button

This allows you to access the phrase trigger Context Menu with a
regular mouse click. The gear inside the button will be filled in if
there have been any Cues or Expressions added to the phrase trigger,
and hollow otherwise. The contents of the menu itself are described
<<context-menu,below>>.

[[midi-output]]
=== MIDI Output Menu

The menu:MIDI Output[] Menu lets you choose the MIDI device to which
the phrase trigger will send messages when you configure it to send MIDI
messages for particular events. It will show all MIDI outputs
currently available on your system.

The chosen MIDI output will be used for all messages that the phrase
trigger is configured to send, including those belonging to any Cues
created in the phrase trigger. But each phrase trigger can have its
own MIDI output, in case you have a large show with many cues.

NOTE: As with the MIDI Output Menu in the
<<Triggers.adoc#midi-output-menu,Triggers window>>, if a MIDI Output
is chosen which is no longer available on the system, it will remain
in that phrase trigger’s menu, but the Enabled section of the phrase
trigger will be replaced with the message “Not found.” Once the output
reappears, or a different output is chosen, the phrase trigger will
become operational again.

[[playing-status]]
=== Playing Status

To the right of the MIDI Output section there is a Playing Status
indicator. It has an outer ring which shows whether the phrase trigger
is currently enabled (a green circle) or disabled (a red circle with a
slash). If any player is currently playing the phrase trigger, there
is a filled circle inside the enabled indicator ring:

[width="50%",cols=".^,^.^",options="header"]
|===
|State
|Indicator

|Disabled, Not Playing
|image:Disabled.png[Disabled,52,52]

|Enabled, Not Playing
|image:Enabled.png[Enabled,52,52]

|Disabled, Playing
|image:DisabledPlaying.png[alt=Disabled, Playing,width=52,height=52]

|Enabled, Playing
|image:EnabledPlaying.png[alt=Enabled, Playing,width=52,height=52]

|===

NOTE: Because of a limitation of the DJ Link protocol, if a player is
positioned right before a beat, and the DJ uses Cue Play (holds down
the Cue button to preview the track), Beat Link Trigger might briefly
think the track is playing if the player sends a beat packet before
any status packets reporting the fact that it is in cue preview mode.
As soon as a status packet is received, the track will be recognized
as not actually playing, and further beat packets will be ignored.
Unfortunately, the first beat packet can cause your Playing message
(and Cues' Started messages) to be sent prematurely, followed within a
fraction of a second by Stopped messages.

[[message]]
=== Message Menu

The menu:Message[] Menu determines what kind of MIDI message is sent
when the phrase trigger is enabled, chosen, and a player starts
playing the corresponding phrase, or when the last player that was
playing the phrase stops.

> TODO: Screen shot.

None:: With this setting, which is the default, nothing is sent when
the phrase starts or stops playing.footnote:none[Note that this is
different from low-level Triggers, which always send something--you
need to remember to pick the kind of message to be sent for any Show
events that you want to respond to.] When `None` is chosen, there are
no interface elements visible to configure the event. They will appear
once you choose an event type to send, as shown in the screen shot
above.

Note:: With this setting, the Show sends a Note On message, with
velocity 127 and the note number shown to the right of the menu, when
some player starts playing the phrase trigger, and a Note Off message
when the last player playing the phrase stops.
+
The Channel on which the Started/Stopped messages are sent is
configured just to the right of the note selector.

CC:: With this setting, the Show sends a Control Change message, with
value 127 and the controller number shown to the right of the menu,
when the the phrase trigger starts playing, and sends a CC with value
0 when the phrase trigger stops playing.

> TODO: The below expression link needs to be replaced to link to to
  the phrase trigger expressions section once that gets written!

Custom:: When this option is chosen, you can send any kind of message
you want when the phrase trigger starts and/or stops, by writing code
as described in the
<<Expressions_ShowTrack.adoc#track-playing-expression,Expressions>>
section. This gives you the most flexibility because in addition to
MIDI messages, you can send arbitrary UDP packets, HTTP requests, or
whatever you might need.
+
If you choose `Custom` and have not yet written a Playing expression,
the expression editor will be opened to let you do that. You can
also open that editor using the <<context-menu,context menu>>.

[[note-spinner]]
==== Note/Controller Spinner

Found immediately to the right of the menu:Message[] Menu
(unless `None` is chosen as the Message type), this field lets you set
the MIDI note number used for Note-based started and stopped messages,
or the controller number used for Control Change-based started and
stopped messages. The value is also available to your phrase trigger
expressions if they want to use it.

[[channel-spinner]]
==== Channel Spinner

As described above, this lets you specify the MIDI channel on which
started/stopped messages are sent for this phrase trigger.

[context-menu]
=== Context Menu

> TODO: This link needs to be updated to the phrase triggers
  expressions section once that is written too.

Each phrase trigger row has a context menu attached to it, which can
be accessed by right-clicking (or control-clicking) anywhere on the
row’s background, but you can also open the context menu with a
regular mouse click on the button with a gear icon in it. Most of the
menu is devoted to editing various expressions to customize the phrase
trigger, as described in the <<Expressions_ShowTrack.adoc#,Expressions
section>>. The gear icon next to an expression will be filled in if
that expression has a value, and the gear in the button will be filled
in if any expression associated with the Track has a value, or if
there are any Cues in the phrase trigger.

> TODO: Flesh out, with screen shots, etc.

[[simulate]]
=== Simulating Phrase Trigger Events

The menu:Simulate[] submenu allows you to pretend that a Playing,
Stopped, Beat or Tracked Update event has occurred, and send the
corresponding MIDI messages and/or run the custom Expressions you have
configured for those situations.

> TODO: Add screen shot of simulate menu.

[TIP]
====

This can allow you to set up MIDI mappings in other software, like
Ableton Live, that requires actual MIDI messages in order to learn
them, even when you are working in offline mode because you don't
currently have access to your CDJs.

====

The corresponding option will be disabled if there is no MIDI message
or Expression configured for that event.


[[editing-cues]]
== Editing Cues

Just like with tracks, you can open a cues editor window for each
phrase trigger, to see the four sections of the trigger, with the
sizes you have chosen for them (although if you set the start or end
sections to zero bars, those will not be visible). The window looks
like this:

image:PTCuesEditor.png[Phrase Trigger Cues Editor window,942,401]

It provides a canvas on which you can drag to paint cues, like you can
on the track waveform in a track cues editor window, but there is no
waveform here because the trigger could activate for phrases in
different places in one or many tracks. The canvas represents an
entire phrase for which the trigger has activated.

As noted above, the phrase will be divided into sections, whose sizes
you get to choose at the top of the window. The size you choose will
determine the size of the portion of canvas on which you can place
cues for each section of the phrase trigger:

* Start, which gets lined up with the beginning of the phrase in the
  track, and can contain zero or more bars, identified by a green
  stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

* Loop, which gets stretched (looped) or shrunk as needed to fill up
  the middle of the phrase in the track, and can contain one or more
  bars, identified by a blue stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

* End, which gets lined up with the end of the phrase in the track
  (before the fill-in section, if there is one), and can contain zero
  or more bars, identified by a red stripe at the bottom of the cue
  canvas.

* Fill-in, which gets stretched (looped) or shrunk as needed to cover
  the fill-in section of the phrase, if there is one, identified by a
  purple stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

If the actual phrase is smaller than the sizes you have picked for
your canvas, first the end of the Loop section is taken out of
consideration, until that section is entirely gone. Then, the end of
the End section is eaten away, until that entire section is gone, and
finally the end of the Start section is eaten away until it fits the
actual phrase. (As noted above, if you don't want this kind of
shrinking to occur, you can configure your phrase trigger to only be
enabled when the phrase is longer than a certain number of bars.)

Unlike in a track cues editor window, the New Cue button (and the
library menu options for adding new cues) will only be enabled once
you have painted a location for the cue on the canvas, because
otherwise there is no way to tell in which section the cue should be
created. Each cue can exist in a single section only, and its start
and end beats are measured from the start of that section.

Once cues have been added to a section, you can no longer shrink that
section to a size where any of its cues would no longer fit. So if you
want to shrink a section, you will need to first delete any cues in
the part that you want to eliminate.

Much like you can see where the playheads of the players are in the
cue editor, you will be able to watch them move through the cue canvas
of your phrase trigger. If the phrase is long, and so the loop section
is looping, you will see this happen, until the end is reached, at
which point the playhead will jump to that section.

Cues have all the same properties and expressions as they do in
tracks, and share the same cue library, but their positions are
computed relative to the start of the phrase which activated them, and
taking into account any looping or shrinking needed to make the
trigger fit the actual phrase.

To help identify the sections in which each cue exists, its row in the
cues editor has a stripe at the top which matches the color of the
section.

> TODO: Probably just delegate to the existing Track Cues section for
  the discussion of how to edit individual cues, since once they are
  on the trigger canvas, the process is essentially the same.

Commit message:

Add player selection menu for phrase triggers, #119
We need a way to say if it runs for the master player, or online
players, or any player, when you are not using your own custom enabled
function.

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc, after:

= Phrase Triggers
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Starting in version 7, we gained the ability to take advantage of
phrase analysis information in tracks, if the DJ has added that. In
addition to adding useful information along the bottom of track
waveforms, this enabled the creation of a major new feature for
running attractive light shows even for tracks that you have not been
able to build custom cues for.

This is achieved by adding Phrase Triggers to your show, which allow
you to arrange cues that look good whenever a particular phrase type
is played, timed to the beginning, middle, ending, and fill-in section
(if there is one) of the phrase. You can fine tune which of your
triggers are used for which types of phrases, and assign weights so
that when multiple alternatives exist, one is chosen more or less
often than another.

NOTE: This page is an early draft, describing the new phrase triggers
feature, and is being used to refine the design.

The phrase triggers will come below all the tracks in the show. Their
rows may be a slightly different color to make them stand out, but
they will be structurally so different that may not even be necessary.

image:ShowWithPhrases.png[Show window with phrase rows,450,400]

As of now, the only items I can think of for the new Phrases menu are
"`New Phrase Trigger`", which will create a new phrase trigger row and
scroll it into view, and "`Sort by Comments`". Unless you sort them,
Phrase triggers will be kept in the order they are created, and
probably don't need to show numbers like the original Triggers window,
which will make it easier to cope with deletions. The context menu for
each row (or a pair of buttons in the row, since it looks like there
will be plenty of room) will also allow you to move it up (unless it
is already the first phrase trigger) or down (unless it is the last).

The Filter text field will also filter phrase triggers (by their
comments), and the Loaded Only check box will cause only active phrase
triggers to be visible in the window.

[[exclusivity]]
== Exclusivity

Before even looking at the list of phrase triggers, any tracks that
are part of the show get to decide whether to allow phrase triggers to
run while they are playing. By default, tracks prevent this: in
general if a track has been added to the show, its custom cues will be
more appropriate than randomly-chosen phrase triggers.

Any track in the show for which phrase information is available will
have a small lock button just to the left of the phrase color bars in
the waveform preview. When it is locked (and red), that means that
phrase triggers are locked out for the track:

image:TrackPhraseLocked.png[Track with phrase triggers locked out,565,155]

Clicking the button toggles the phrase trigger lock, allowing phrase
triggers to run while the track plays:

image:TrackPhraseUnlocked.png[Track with phrase triggers allowed,565,155]

So, when a new phrase starts playing in a track, and it is time to
decide which phrase triggers to run:

* If the track playing is not present in the show, the phrase triggers
  are always allowed to run. If the track is part of the show, it gets
  to decide whether any phrase triggers run or not, as described
  above.

* Phrase triggers themselves have different levels of exclusivity. The
  default is "`Solo in show`", but can also be "`Solo across all
  shows`", or "`Blend`".

* When a new phrase starts, all phrase triggers in all open shows are
  examined to see which are enabled for that trigger (see
  <<enabling-weighting,below>> for details).

* Enabled triggers are grouped by exclusivity, and first any "`Solo
  across all shows`" triggers are considered. A random one is chosen
  and activated.

* Then, for each open show, the "`Solo in show`" triggers in that show
  are considered. If there was a "`Solo across all shows`" trigger
  activated, and it came from this show, then none of the "`Solo in
  show`" triggers will activate, because there is already a trigger
  from this show running. However, if the active trigger was in
  another show, it won't stop these from running. (If you wanted them
  to be prevented from running in this circumstance, you would have
  marked them as solo across all shows. In most cases, each show will
  be used to run triggers for a different purpose, e.g. a show for
  videos, a show for lights, a show for lasers, and so their triggers
  will not conflict.) Again, an enabled trigger is chosen at random,
  taking the weighting into account, and activated.

* Finally, for each open show, all "`Blend`" triggers that are enabled
  for the phrase are activated; they run regardless of other triggers.

[[enabling-weighting]]
== Enabling and Weighting

To decide which phrase triggers should be considered when a phrase
starts, there are a number of filters that can be applied.

image:PhraseTriggerEnabled.png[Phrase trigger Enabled choices,1164,159]

* First you need to determine which players are considered, using the
  menu:Players[] menu. Choices are the current tempo **Master**
  only, any **On-Air** player, or **Any** player at all.

* When that player starts playing a new phrase, you can use the
  btn:[Phrase Types] button to control which phrase types this trigger
  works with, <<phrase-picker,picking one or more>> of the phrases in
  each of the three moods a track can be assigned during phrase
  analysis.

* You can do the same kind of filtering by <<bank-picker,deciding
  which track banks>> you want this trigger to match, using the
  btn:[Track Banks] button .

* You can also set a minimum and/or a maximum phrase length in bars.
  Phrases which are too long or too short will then not activate this
  phrase trigger.

* Similarly, you can set a minimum and/or maximum tempo in BPM, and if
  the track playing is too slow or too fast when it starts playing the
  phrase, it will not activate this phrase trigger.

* And you can assign a weight, from 1 to 1,000, that adjusts how
  likely this trigger is likely to be picked among all the triggers
  which are enabled.

[[phrase-picker]]
Clicking the btn:[Phrase Types] button brings up a picker window like
this:

image:PhraseTypePicker.png[Phrase type picker,555,499]

You can individually select which phrase types can activate the phrase
trigger, or you can turn entire mood columns off and on using the
btn:[None] and btn:[All] buttons at the bottom of the corresponding
column.

[[bank-picker]]
Clicking on the btn:[Track Banks] button brings up a similar picker:

image:TrackBankPicker.png[Track bank picker,291,329]

If you want to do more sophisticated filtering than that, you can
swich to "`Custom`" enabled filtering by choosing
menu:Enabled[Custom]. In this configuration BLT will call an
expression when a phrase is starting to play, and pass your filter
code the phrase, track and player status, and your code can use any
logic you like to decide if the trigger should be enabled.

If your filter returns a number, that will be rounded to the nearest
integer, and if it is positive the trigger will be enabled, with a
weight corresponding to the number you returned (clipped to 1,000 as
an upper bound, again). If your code returns anything other than a
number, if it is truthy, the trigger will be enabled, with a weight of
1, and if it is falsy, the trigger will be disabled.

When you are using a Custom Enabled filter, the bottom row of UI
elements in the phrase trigger row disappears, because your code is
making the decision instead of them. To go back to the simpler
approach, choose menu:Enabled[See Below] again, and they will reappear
and be used instead of your filter code.

[[messages-cues]]
== Messages and Cues

At the level of the entire phrase, the phrase trigger will have a
Playing and Stopped message, which can be configured as MIDI or a
custom expression. When a trigger is enabled as a phrase begins, and
chosen (if it is solo), the Playing message is sent. When the end of
the phrase is reached (or the player stops, or the DJ jumps out of the
phrase), the Stop message is sent.

However, the real power of phrases for building creative shows is that
they will <<editing-cues,provide a canvas>> on which you can draw
cues, just like tracks.

> TODO: This needs fleshing out, as noted above. Here are sections
  that are already required by cross-references from the Show
  Internals section:

Above the enabled configuration (if it is visible, because you have
not chosen to use a Custom enabled expression), you find the controls
that let you configure how you want the Show to respond to the phrase
trigger.

[[context-menu-button]]
=== Context Menu Button

This allows you to access the phrase trigger Context Menu with a
regular mouse click. The gear inside the button will be filled in if
there have been any Cues or Expressions added to the phrase trigger,
and hollow otherwise. The contents of the menu itself are described
<<context-menu,below>>.

[[midi-output]]
=== MIDI Output Menu

The menu:MIDI Output[] Menu lets you choose the MIDI device to which
the phrase trigger will send messages when you configure it to send MIDI
messages for particular events. It will show all MIDI outputs
currently available on your system.

The chosen MIDI output will be used for all messages that the phrase
trigger is configured to send, including those belonging to any Cues
created in the phrase trigger. But each phrase trigger can have its
own MIDI output, in case you have a large show with many cues.

NOTE: As with the MIDI Output Menu in the
<<Triggers.adoc#midi-output-menu,Triggers window>>, if a MIDI Output
is chosen which is no longer available on the system, it will remain
in that phrase trigger’s menu, but the Enabled section of the phrase
trigger will be replaced with the message “Not found.” Once the output
reappears, or a different output is chosen, the phrase trigger will
become operational again.

[[playing-status]]
=== Playing Status

To the right of the MIDI Output section there is a Playing Status
indicator. It has an outer ring which shows whether the phrase trigger
is currently enabled (a green circle) or disabled (a red circle with a
slash). If any player is currently playing the phrase trigger, there
is a filled circle inside the enabled indicator ring:

[width="50%",cols=".^,^.^",options="header"]
|===
|State
|Indicator

|Disabled, Not Playing
|image:Disabled.png[Disabled,52,52]

|Enabled, Not Playing
|image:Enabled.png[Enabled,52,52]

|Disabled, Playing
|image:DisabledPlaying.png[alt=Disabled, Playing,width=52,height=52]

|Enabled, Playing
|image:EnabledPlaying.png[alt=Enabled, Playing,width=52,height=52]

|===

NOTE: Because of a limitation of the DJ Link protocol, if a player is
positioned right before a beat, and the DJ uses Cue Play (holds down
the Cue button to preview the track), Beat Link Trigger might briefly
think the track is playing if the player sends a beat packet before
any status packets reporting the fact that it is in cue preview mode.
As soon as a status packet is received, the track will be recognized
as not actually playing, and further beat packets will be ignored.
Unfortunately, the first beat packet can cause your Playing message
(and Cues' Started messages) to be sent prematurely, followed within a
fraction of a second by Stopped messages.

[[message]]
=== Message Menu

The menu:Message[] Menu determines what kind of MIDI message is sent
when the phrase trigger is enabled, chosen, and a player starts
playing the corresponding phrase, or when the last player that was
playing the phrase stops.

> TODO: Screen shot.

None:: With this setting, which is the default, nothing is sent when
the phrase starts or stops playing.footnote:none[Note that this is
different from low-level Triggers, which always send something--you
need to remember to pick the kind of message to be sent for any Show
events that you want to respond to.] When `None` is chosen, there are
no interface elements visible to configure the event. They will appear
once you choose an event type to send, as shown in the screen shot
above.

Note:: With this setting, the Show sends a Note On message, with
velocity 127 and the note number shown to the right of the menu, when
some player starts playing the phrase trigger, and a Note Off message
when the last player playing the phrase stops.
+
The Channel on which the Started/Stopped messages are sent is
configured just to the right of the note selector.

CC:: With this setting, the Show sends a Control Change message, with
value 127 and the controller number shown to the right of the menu,
when the the phrase trigger starts playing, and sends a CC with value
0 when the phrase trigger stops playing.

> TODO: The below expression link needs to be replaced to link to to
  the phrase trigger expressions section once that gets written!

Custom:: When this option is chosen, you can send any kind of message
you want when the phrase trigger starts and/or stops, by writing code
as described in the
<<Expressions_ShowTrack.adoc#track-playing-expression,Expressions>>
section. This gives you the most flexibility because in addition to
MIDI messages, you can send arbitrary UDP packets, HTTP requests, or
whatever you might need.
+
If you choose `Custom` and have not yet written a Playing expression,
the expression editor will be opened to let you do that. You can
also open that editor using the <<context-menu,context menu>>.

[[note-spinner]]
==== Note/Controller Spinner

Found immediately to the right of the menu:Message[] Menu
(unless `None` is chosen as the Message type), this field lets you set
the MIDI note number used for Note-based started and stopped messages,
or the controller number used for Control Change-based started and
stopped messages. The value is also available to your phrase trigger
expressions if they want to use it.

[[channel-spinner]]
==== Channel Spinner

As described above, this lets you specify the MIDI channel on which
started/stopped messages are sent for this phrase trigger.

[context-menu]
=== Context Menu

> TODO: This link needs to be updated to the phrase triggers
  expressions section once that is written too.

Each phrase trigger row has a context menu attached to it, which can
be accessed by right-clicking (or control-clicking) anywhere on the
row’s background, but you can also open the context menu with a
regular mouse click on the button with a gear icon in it. Most of the
menu is devoted to editing various expressions to customize the phrase
trigger, as described in the <<Expressions_ShowTrack.adoc#,Expressions
section>>. The gear icon next to an expression will be filled in if
that expression has a value, and the gear in the button will be filled
in if any expression associated with the Track has a value, or if
there are any Cues in the phrase trigger.

> TODO: Flesh out, with screen shots, etc.

[[simulate]]
=== Simulating Phrase Trigger Events

The menu:Simulate[] submenu allows you to pretend that a Playing,
Stopped, Beat or Tracked Update event has occurred, and send the
corresponding MIDI messages and/or run the custom Expressions you have
configured for those situations.

> TODO: Add screen shot of simulate menu.

[TIP]
====

This can allow you to set up MIDI mappings in other software, like
Ableton Live, that requires actual MIDI messages in order to learn
them, even when you are working in offline mode because you don't
currently have access to your CDJs.

====

The corresponding option will be disabled if there is no MIDI message
or Expression configured for that event.


[[editing-cues]]
== Editing Cues

Just like with tracks, you can open a cues editor window for each
phrase trigger, to see the four sections of the trigger, with the
sizes you have chosen for them (although if you set the start or end
sections to zero bars, those will not be visible). The window looks
like this:

image:PTCuesEditor.png[Phrase Trigger Cues Editor window,942,401]

It provides a canvas on which you can drag to paint cues, like you can
on the track waveform in a track cues editor window, but there is no
waveform here because the trigger could activate for phrases in
different places in one or many tracks. The canvas represents an
entire phrase for which the trigger has activated.

As noted above, the phrase will be divided into sections, whose sizes
you get to choose at the top of the window. The size you choose will
determine the size of the portion of canvas on which you can place
cues for each section of the phrase trigger:

* Start, which gets lined up with the beginning of the phrase in the
  track, and can contain zero or more bars, identified by a green
  stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

* Loop, which gets stretched (looped) or shrunk as needed to fill up
  the middle of the phrase in the track, and can contain one or more
  bars, identified by a blue stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

* End, which gets lined up with the end of the phrase in the track
  (before the fill-in section, if there is one), and can contain zero
  or more bars, identified by a red stripe at the bottom of the cue
  canvas.

* Fill-in, which gets stretched (looped) or shrunk as needed to cover
  the fill-in section of the phrase, if there is one, identified by a
  purple stripe at the bottom of the cue canvas.

If the actual phrase is smaller than the sizes you have picked for
your canvas, first the end of the Loop section is taken out of
consideration, until that section is entirely gone. Then, the end of
the End section is eaten away, until that entire section is gone, and
finally the end of the Start section is eaten away until it fits the
actual phrase. (As noted above, if you don't want this kind of
shrinking to occur, you can configure your phrase trigger to only be
enabled when the phrase is longer than a certain number of bars.)

Unlike in a track cues editor window, the New Cue button (and the
library menu options for adding new cues) will only be enabled once
you have painted a location for the cue on the canvas, because
otherwise there is no way to tell in which section the cue should be
created. Each cue can exist in a single section only, and its start
and end beats are measured from the start of that section.

Once cues have been added to a section, you can no longer shrink that
section to a size where any of its cues would no longer fit. So if you
want to shrink a section, you will need to first delete any cues in
the part that you want to eliminate.

Much like you can see where the playheads of the players are in the
cue editor, you will be able to watch them move through the cue canvas
of your phrase trigger. If the phrase is long, and so the loop section
is looping, you will see this happen, until the end is reached, at
which point the playhead will jump to that section.

Cues have all the same properties and expressions as they do in
tracks, and share the same cue library, but their positions are
computed relative to the start of the phrase which activated them, and
taking into account any looping or shrinking needed to make the
trigger fit the actual phrase.

To help identify the sections in which each cue exists, its row in the
cues editor has a stripe at the top which matches the color of the
section.

> TODO: Probably just delegate to the existing Track Cues section for
  the discussion of how to edit individual cues, since once they are
  on the trigger canvas, the process is essentially the same.
