doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Shows_CueLibrary.adoc, before:

= The Cue Library
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

When building a show with a group of tracks, there will often be a
shared set of lighting looks or presets that will be useful in more
than one track. Once you have set up a cue that sends the proper
messages to achieve that look, you can make it available for reuse
in any track by adding it to the Cue Library. To do that, choose
menu:Add Cue to Library[] from the Cue
<<Shows_Cues.adoc#cue-context-menu,context menu.>>

[[cue-library-button]] As soon as you have a cue in the show's
library, a kbd:[Library ▾] button appears next to the kbd:[New Cue]
button in any Cue Editor windows you have open for tracks in the show
(and any existing cue rows also get new link buttons just below their
gear buttons, described below). Clicking kbd:[Library ▾] gives you a
menu of all the cues that you have added to the show's library, and
choosing one creates a new cue (in the same location that the kbd:[New
Cue] button would), based on the template cue that you put in the
library:

image:CueLibraryButton.png[Cue Library Button,900,425]

[TIP]
====

The names that appear in the Cue Library are the names (comments) of
the cues that have been added to it, so it makes sense to make sure
your cue is well named before adding it to the library, although you
can <<renaming-cues,rename them later>> using menu:Library[Manage Cues
> Rename].

This image also shows the strip of phrase information which appears
along the bottom of a track on which the DJ has performed phrase
analysis, which can be very helpful in figuring out good places for
cues.

====

Another way to choose a cue template from the library is to right-click
(or control-click) anywhere outside an existing cue in the waveform
at the top of the Cue Editor window:

image:CueLibraryContext.png[Cue Library Context Menu,900,425]

Using either of those approaches to choose menu:New “Red Wash” Cue[] in
the menu would result in the creation of a cue based on that template
in the selected region of the track:

image:CueLibraryUsed.png[Cue from Library,900,425]

The new cue will share any of the MIDI message configurations and
Expressions that were present in the cue that was added to the show
library.

[[linked-cues]]
== Linked Cues

The linked chain in the new link button towards the bottom left of the
cue row indicates that this new cue is linked to the library cue from
which it was created. Any changes you make to this cue (apart from the
location, name, and display hue of this copy) will instantly be
applied to the library cue, and to any other cues that are linked to
it, whether in this track or in any other track in the show. This
makes it very easy to keep your related cues working the same way.

TIP: If you do want to make notes about the specific role this copy of
the cue will play in your show, the comment text (“Red Wash” in this
case) starts out selected as soon as you have created it, making it
easy to update.

If you ever have a cue that started out linked to a library cue, but
you want to make it work a little differently, you can break the link
using the link button:

image:UnlinkCue.png[Unlinking a Cue,365,155]

Once you've done that, the cue will exist indepently, and changes you
make to it will not affect the library nor any other cues. The link
button changes to show a broken chain.

If you change your mind and want to re-link it, you can use the link
button again to do that. In the same way, you can link together any
cues you created without using the library, if you ever decide they
should be linked. Simply click the link button in each cue you want to
link, and chose the library cue that you want it linked to:

image:LinkCue.png[Unlinking a Cue,365,155]

[NOTE]
====

If the cue you are linking to a library cue has any different
message configuration or expressions, they will be replaced with the
versions in the library when you establish the link, so you will need
to confirm that you want the linking process to proceed.

image:LinkConfirm.png[Confirming a Link,500,210]

====

[[renaming-cues]]
== Renaming Library Cues

As noted above, if you change your mind about what a library cue
should be called, you can choose the cue you'd like to rename in the
menu:Library[Manage Cues > Rename] submenu:

image:RenameCue.png[Renaming a Library Cue,900,425]

This will bring up a dialog where you can choose a new name for the
cue.

image:RenameCue2.png[Renaming a Library Cue,440,200]

You can choose any name which is not already in use by another library
cue, and it will take that new name. The cues that link to it won't be
renamed (since they may all have their own unique names by this
point), but they will stay linked to it under its new name.

== Deleting Library Cues

If you decide a cue no longer deserves to be in the library, you can
use a similar menu:Library[Manage Cues > Delete] submenu to remove it:

image:DeleteCue.png[Deleting a Library Cue,900,425]

You will be asked for confirmation, since this process can't be
undone. Also, if the library cue is currently linked to any cues in
your show, the confirmation dialog will warn you about this, and
explain that those cues will all become unlinked if you proceed with
deletion of the library cue.

image:DeleteCue2.png[Deleting a Library Cue,640,270]

> TODO: Revise the rest after this point!


[[cue-library-folders]]
== Cue Library Folders

If you collect a large number of cues in your library, the menu can
get inconveniently large and make it hard to find the cue you are
looking for. You can avoid that problem by organizing your cues into
folders. At the bottom of the <<cue-library-button,Library button
menu>> there is a menu:Manage Folders[] submenu.

When you have no folders, the only option in that menu is
menu:New Folder[]. Choosing it opens up a dialog in which you can enter
the name of the folder you would like to create:

image:NewCueFolder.png[New Cue Folder,453,204]

As soon as you have created a folder, the menus for choosing library
cues (both in the Library button and in the waveform context menu)
expand to show all the folders as submenus before the non-folder cues:

image:CueLibraryWithFolder.png[Cue Library with Folder,961,423]

The context menu option for adding a cue to the library also
transforms into a submenu allowing you to choose whether you want to
add it to a folder or to the top level of the library.

TIP: If you have existing cues in the library that you would like to
move into folders, TODO: rewrite this part showing the new mechanism!

image:AddCueToFolder.png[Cue Library Button,961,699]

Once you have organized your cues into folders, finding and picking
them out of the appropriate submenu can be easier and faster than
scrolling through a single giant menu.

Once you have folders, the menu:Manage Folders[] menu also allows you
to rename or remove them. Removing a folder moves any cues you placed
inside it back to the top level of the cue library.

image:ManageFolders.png[Cue Library with Folder,961,464]

Commit message:

Updated user guide for linked cues, closes #120

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Shows_CueLibrary.adoc, after:

= The Cue Library
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

When building a show with a group of tracks, there will often be a
shared set of lighting looks or presets that will be useful in more
than one track. Once you have set up a cue that sends the proper
messages to achieve that look, you can make it available for reuse
in any track by adding it to the Cue Library. To do that, choose
menu:Add Cue to Library[] from the Cue
<<Shows_Cues.adoc#cue-context-menu,context menu.>>

[[cue-library-button]] As soon as you have a cue in the show's
library, a kbd:[Library ▾] button appears next to the kbd:[New Cue]
button in any Cue Editor windows you have open for tracks in the show
(and any existing cue rows also get new link buttons just below their
gear buttons, described below). Clicking kbd:[Library ▾] gives you a
menu of all the cues that you have added to the show's library, and
choosing one creates a new cue (in the same location that the kbd:[New
Cue] button would), based on the template cue that you put in the
library:

image:CueLibraryButton.png[Cue Library Button,900,425]

[TIP]
====

The names that appear in the Cue Library are the names (comments) of
the cues that have been added to it, so it makes sense to make sure
your cue is well named before adding it to the library, although you
can <<renaming-cues,rename them later>> using menu:Library[Manage Cues
> Rename].

This image also shows the strip of phrase information which appears
along the bottom of a track on which the DJ has performed phrase
analysis, which can be very helpful in figuring out good places for
cues.

====

Another way to choose a cue template from the library is to right-click
(or control-click) anywhere outside an existing cue in the waveform
at the top of the Cue Editor window:

image:CueLibraryContext.png[Cue Library Context Menu,900,425]

Using either of those approaches to choose menu:New “Red Wash” Cue[] in
the menu would result in the creation of a cue based on that template
in the selected region of the track:

image:CueLibraryUsed.png[Cue from Library,900,425]

The new cue will share any of the MIDI message configurations and
Expressions that were present in the cue that was added to the show
library.

[[linked-cues]]
== Linked Cues

The linked chain in the new link button towards the bottom left of the
cue row indicates that this new cue is linked to the library cue from
which it was created. Any changes you make to this cue (apart from the
location, name, and display hue of this copy) will instantly be
applied to the library cue, and to any other cues that are linked to
it, whether in this track or in any other track in the show. This
makes it very easy to keep your related cues working the same way.

TIP: If you do want to make notes about the specific role this copy of
the cue will play in your show, the comment text (“Red Wash” in this
case) starts out selected as soon as you have created it, making it
easy to update.

If you ever have a cue that started out linked to a library cue, but
you want to make it work a little differently, you can break the link
using the link button:

image:UnlinkCue.png[Unlinking a Cue,365,155]

Once you've done that, the cue will exist indepently, and changes you
make to it will not affect the library nor any other cues. The link
button changes to show a broken chain.

If you change your mind and want to re-link it, you can use the link
button again to do that. In the same way, you can link together any
cues you created without using the library, if you ever decide they
should be linked. Simply click the link button in each cue you want to
link, and chose the library cue that you want it linked to:

image:LinkCue.png[Unlinking a Cue,365,155]

[NOTE]
====

If the cue you are linking to a library cue has any different
message configuration or expressions, they will be replaced with the
versions in the library when you establish the link, so you will need
to confirm that you want the linking process to proceed.

image:LinkConfirm.png[Confirming a Link,500,210]

====

[[renaming-cues]]
== Renaming Library Cues

As noted above, if you change your mind about what a library cue
should be called, you can choose the cue you'd like to rename in the
menu:Library[Manage Cues > Rename] submenu:

image:RenameCue.png[Renaming a Library Cue,900,425]

This will bring up a dialog where you can choose a new name for the
cue.

image:RenameCue2.png[Renaming a Library Cue,440,200]

You can choose any name which is not already in use by another library
cue, and it will take that new name. The cues that link to it won't be
renamed (since they may all have their own unique names by this
point), but they will stay linked to it under its new name.

== Deleting Library Cues

If you decide a cue no longer deserves to be in the library, you can
use a similar menu:Library[Manage Cues > Delete] submenu to remove it:

image:DeleteCue.png[Deleting a Library Cue,900,425]

You will be asked for confirmation, since this operation can't be
undone. Also, if the library cue is currently linked to any cues in
your show, the confirmation dialog will warn you about this, and
explain that those cues will all become unlinked if you proceed with
deletion of the library cue.

image:DeleteCue2.png[Deleting a Library Cue,640,270]


[[cue-library-folders]]
== Cue Library Folders

If you collect a large number of cues in your library, the menu can
get inconveniently large and make it hard to find the cue you are
looking for. You can address that problem by organizing your cues into
folders. At the bottom of the <<cue-library-button,Library button
menu>> there is a menu:Manage Folders[] submenu.

When you have no folders, the only option in that menu is
menu:New Folder[]. Choosing it opens up a dialog in which you can enter
the name of the folder you would like to create:

image:NewCueFolder.png[New Cue Folder,453,204]

As soon as you have created a folder, the menus for choosing library
cues (both in the Library button and in the waveform context menu)
expand to show all the folders as submenus before the non-folder cues:

image:CueLibraryWithFolder.png[Cue Library with Folder,900,425]

The context menu option for adding a cue to the library also
transforms into a submenu allowing you to choose whether you want to
add it to a folder or to the top level of the library.

image:AddCueToFolder.png[Cue Library Button,961,699]

[TIP]
====

If you have existing cues in the library that you would like to move
into your new folders, you can do that using the new
menu:Library[Manage Cues > Move] submenu that appears as soon as you
have created folders:

image:MoveLibraryCue.png[Moving a Library Cue,900,425]
====

Once you have organized your cues into folders, finding and picking
them out of the appropriate submenu can be easier and faster than
scrolling through a single giant menu.

Once you have folders, the menu:Manage Folders[] menu also allows you
to rename or remove them. Removing a folder moves any cues you placed
inside it back to the top level of the cue library.

image:ManageFolders.png[Managing Folders,900,425]

Also, once you have moved cues into folders, the link button will help
you remember where you've filed them by showing the path to the cue
that you are linked to:

image:LinkedInFolder.png[Linked to a Cue in a Folder,900,425]
