= Raw Triggers
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Starting in version 7.3, Shows gained the ability to add “raw
triggers”, which are low-level triggers that appear in the
<<Triggers.adoc#,Triggers window>>, even though they belong to a show.
Opening the show will add its raw triggers to the Triggers Window, and
closing it will remove them again. This allows a coherent set of
behavior to be organized in a Show file, regardless of the kinds of
triggers it needs. This is especially convenient for offering
<<Integration.adoc#,integration examples>> as self-contained Show
files that can simply be downloaded, opened, and used.

To add a raw trigger to a show, chose menu:File[New Raw Trigger] in
the show menu bar, or type kbd:[⌘+R] (on the Mac) or kbd:[Ctrl+R] (on
other platforms) while that show has keyboard focus.

image:NewRawTrigger.png[New Raw Trigger,263,155]

When there are triggers from shows in the Triggers window, they appear
below all independent triggers. The first trigger from a particular
show has a header line that explains what show the next set of
triggers belong to. Triggers that do not belong to shows have gray
backrounds, while triggers from each show share a distinct background
color tint:

image:TriggerFromShow.png[Triggers window with a show trigger,850.420]

For details about how to configure the trigger itself, see the
<<Triggers.adoc#,Triggers section>> (but keep in mind that any shared
functions, setup, and shutdown expressions that are necessary for the
trigger to operate should be added to the show, not the Triggers
window, so they travel along with the trigger, and can be run at
appropriate times when the show is opened and closed).
