= Simulating Playback
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]

Although you can simulate many individual events using the Simulate
menu options in <<Shows_Cues.adoc#cue-simulate,Cue editors>>,
<<Shows_Tracks.adoc#track-simulate,Track editors>>,
<<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#simulate,Phrase Trigger editors>>, and
<<Triggers.adoc#trigger-simulate,Trigger editors>>, and simulate
running most Expressions within their
<<Expressions.adoc#editor-menus,Expressions Editor>> or from the
<<Expressions_Report.adoc#,Expresions Report>>, all of these
approaches use randomly selected data to simulate a single, isolated
event. You need something more powerful in order to test what will
happen with a related set of triggers, cues, or expressions when they
are reacting to an actual track being played.

The most meaningful and reliable way to do this, of course, is to
connect some actual player hardware, take Beat Link Trigger online,
load up a track, and play it. This lets your expressions access all
the data available through the Beat Link library, and lets you see how
your cues and triggers line up with the audio of the track itself.

But sometimes it is useful to be able to test approximately how things
are going to work when a track is played, even if you can't hear it
playing. Many triggers, cues, and expressions only need information
that can be simulated. In that case, you can still get a sense of how
your related cues and triggers will work with each other even when you
don’t have player hardware available, using BLT’s Shallow Playback
Simulator, which is available in the Triggers window menu:Network[]
menu when you are not online:

image:NewPlaybackSimulator.png[New Playback Simulator,360,220]

This opens a Shallow Playback Simulator window:

image:PlaybackSimulator.png[Shallow Playback Simulator,760,300]

The simulator allows you to pick which Player Number it is using, in
the range 1 through 6 (as with CDJ-3000s). You can open up to six of
these Simulator windows at the same time, each using a different
Player Number, so you can simulate a full complement of hardware
playing different (or the same) tracks at the same time.

The On-Air and Master check boxes allow you to configure whether the
simulated player is reporting itself as On-Air or as the Master player
(which may affect aspects of your triggers, cues, and expressions that
you want to test).

The Track menu allows you to configure the track that will seem to be
loaded and playing in the simulator. If you have no Show files open
(or if those shows have no tracks imported in them), then there will
be two tracks to choose from, the same two tracks which are simulated
in the <<ObsOverlay.adoc#,OBS Streaming Overlay>> when you are
offline. But any tracks that you have imported into open Shows will
also be available to choose.

The Play button allows you to toggle the simulated player between
playing and paused, and the Pitch slider allows you to adjust the
playback speed between -50% and +50%. The current effective tempo at
the point of the track being played is displayed on the right.

TIP: You can quickly “needle jump” to any point in the track by
clicking in the waveform preview that makes up the bottom half of the
Simulator window.

Just as when a real track is playing, you will see its effects in the
<<Triggers.adoc#,Triggers window>>, any <<Shows_Tracks.adoc#,Track
rows>> and <<Shows_Cues.adoc#,Cues Editor windows>> for the chosen
track, and any <<Shows_PhraseTriggers.adoc#,Phrase Triggers>> that
have been activated by the playing track, as well as their Cues Editor
Windows if they are open.

If you have configured your Cues Editor window to
<<Shows_Cues.adoc#cues-window-header-elements,Auto-Scroll>>, it will
scroll along with simulators that are playing the seme track, just as
it will for real player hardware. This is handy for watching your cues
activate and deactivate.

When you close a Simulator window, it is as if the corresponding
player has been turned off or disconnected from the network; its
effects will disappear from all the windows that were responding to
it.

As soon as you start the process of actually
<<README.adoc#connecting-later,going online>>, all of the Simulator
windows will be closed automatically, because they cannot coexist with
real players.
