doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Triggers.adoc, before:

= Triggers
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]
:page-toclevels: 3

Triggers were the first mechanism that existed for building
integrations in Beat Link Trigger, and the Triggers window is still
the primary one that opens when the program is first launched.
Triggers watch for specific activity on one or more CDJs, and send
things like MIDI or OSC messages in response. They can recognize
tracks and synchronize external systems to them using MIDI clock or
Ableton Link.


== Overview

Each row in the Trigger window defines a single trigger, which watches
a player or category of players, and can be configured to send
different messages in response to what the player is doing.

If this is the first time you have opened Beat Link Trigger, you will
see just one trigger containing default options.

image:FirstTrigger.png[First Trigger,900,294]

To create additional triggers you can choose menu:Triggers[New
Trigger], or type kbd:[⌘+T] (on the Mac) or kbd:[Ctrl+T] (on other
platforms). You can get back to this default state at any time by
choosing menu:Triggers[Clear Triggers].

image:TriggersMenu.png[Triggers Menu,355,225]

TIP: Triggers allow you to build all kinds of integrations with your
players, at a very low level. For the common case of wanting to make
something happen when a particular part of a specific track is played,
the new <<Shows.adoc#,Show Interface>> added in version 0.5 is much
easier and more convenient to use, so you may want to start with that!
And for an even faster way to get started, you may wan to explore the
integration example that shows how to use
<<Integration_MIDI_rekordbox.adoc#,rekordbox cue names>> to trigger
specific MIDI messages.

== Trigger Elements

Here are the sections of a trigger, and how they work:

=== Comment

The Comment field is a free-form text area you can use to describe the
purpose of the trigger, to remind you when you later come back to it.
Apart from the trigger index, a number by which Beat Link Trigger
identifies the trigger when it is reporting errors or naming related
windows (like expression editors, described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#,Expressions section>>), the comment takes up the entire
width of the first line of the trigger row.

[[watch-menu]]
=== Watch Menu

The menu:Watch[] menu tells the trigger what player(s) it should pay
attention to. It lets you choose Player&nbsp;1 through Player&nbsp;4,
as well as two dynamic choices.

image:WatchMenu.png[Watch Menu,840,294]

NOTE: If a player is chosen which is not currently present on the
network, the player will be reported “not found”, and the trigger will
not operate until either the player reappears, or a different player
is chosen. Of course when you are working in Offline mode, all players
will be missing and the trigger will simply say “Offline”.

Any Player:: If you choose to watch Any Player, then just as you would
expect, the trigger will respond to activity on any player in the
network. It will track whatever player seems “best” at the moment: If
there is an <<enabled-menu,Enabled condition>>
which causes the trigger to be enabled
for some players and not for others, it will watch the players that
enable it. Within that group, if some players are playing and others
are not, it will watch the ones that are playing. Finally, if there
are still multiple players to choose between, it will pick the
lowest-numbered one.

Master Player:: If you choose to watch the Master Player, the trigger
will focus on whichever player is the current Tempo (sync) Master.

[[player-status-summary]]
=== Player Status Summary

Right after the menu:Watch[] menu, the trigger row displays the player
number and latest status received from the watched player, if one was
found. The status includes the current state of the player,
information about the loaded track, the current effective BPM and
relative pitch, and the number of the current beat.

The track ID is followed by an indication in square brackets of the
player and slot (`usb`, `sd`, `cd`, or `rb` for rekordbox) from which the
track was loaded. That combination (ID number, source player and slot)
will be unique to that track until that media is unloaded and
replaced. IDs are not unique across players and slots.

These three pieces of information can be used to identify the track
and set up fairly sophisticated custom filter expressions, as
described in <<Matching.adoc#,Matching Tracks Manually>>, although the
<<Shows.adoc#,Show interface>> can do all that work for you now in
most scenarios. If one of your expressions recognizes a track, it can
tell Beat Link Trigger to display its name (or any other text you
like) instead of the normal track description by storing your desired
description string under the key `:track-description` in the trigger
`locals` map. Here is an example of what that could look like, when a
track named Apex has been recognized, and the string `Apex` has been
stored under `:track-description` in the trigger’s `locals`:

image:ApexRecognized.png[Track Apex Recognized,804,161]

[[metadata]]
==== Metadata

Now that Beat Link Trigger can request track metadata from the CDJs
in many different ways, that is most convenient and flexible way of
matching tracks, and it is always enabled.

When metadata is available for a track, the Player Status section
grows to two lines, and displays the track title and artist on the
second line, without any effort on the part of your trigger code:

image:MetadataStatus.png[Player Status with Metadata,794,166]

Your trigger can also change the content of the metadata line by
setting whatever value it wants under the key `:metadata-summary` in
the trigger’s `locals`. Metadata values available to your trigger
expressions include `track-artist`, `track-comment`, `track-genre`,
`track-key`, `track-label`, `track-length` (in seconds), and
`track-title`.

Powerful ways to take advantage of this metadata capability are
offered by the <<Shows.adoc#,Show interface>>, and the pieces you can
use to build your own custom solutions are explored in
<<Matching.adoc#,Matching Tracks Manually>>.

==== Playlist Position

If for some reason you don't want to see the information provided by
the track metadata, and are only interested in the track's position
within a playlist (or physical CD, if one is being played), you can
choose menu:Triggers[Default Track Description > playlist position].
This will display only the track index, which is 1 for the first
track, 2 for the second, and so on. To return to the full metadata
available, choose
menu:Triggers[Default Track Description > rekordbox id [player:slot]].

[[midi-output-menu]]
=== MIDI Output Menu

The menu:MIDI Output[] Menu lets you choose the MIDI device to which
the trigger will send messages. It will show all MIDI outputs
currently available on your system.

image:MidiMenu.png[MIDI Output Menu,810,281]

NOTE: If a MIDI Output is chosen which is no longer available on the
system (as shown in trigger 3 above), it will remain in that row’s
menu, but the Enabled section of the trigger will be replaced with the
message “Not found.” Once the output reappears, or a different output
is chosen, the trigger will become operational again.

[[message-menu]]
=== Message Menu

The menu:Message[] Menu determines what kind of MIDI message is sent by the
trigger.

image:MessageMenu.png[Message Menu,790,270]

Note:: With this setting, the trigger sends a Note On message, with
velocity 127 and the note number shown to the right of the menu, when
the watched player starts playing (as long as the trigger is enabled),
and a Note Off message when the watched player stops or the trigger is
disabled.

CC:: With this setting, the trigger sends a Control Change message,
with value 127 and the controller number shown to the right of the
menu, when the watched player starts playing (as long as the trigger
is enabled), and sends a CC with value 0 when the player stops or the
trigger is disabled.

Clock:: With this setting, the trigger sends MIDI Beat Clock messages
whenever the trigger is enabled, to synchronize the tempo of the
target device with the tempo reported by the watched player. If the
check box to the right of the menu is checked, it will either send a
Start or Continue message (as chosen in the following menu) when the
watched player starts playing, and if the Stop box is checked, it will
send a Stop message when the watched player stops. In special cases,
you can also <<Link.adoc#ignoring-track-bpm,ignore the track tempo>> and
respond only to pitch changes.
+
[WARNING]
====

MIDI Clock is an old, slow, and imprecise mechanism for synchronizing
tempo, especially when sent by a general-purpose operating system like
the one running Beat Link Trigger. If at all possible, you should use
Ableton Link instead, as described below. You will get _much_ better
results. If you have to talk to older hardware that can’t accept
Ableton Link, consider still sending Link from Beat Link Trigger, and
using a dedicated Ableton Link to MIDI bridge to talk to your older
hardware. If you have any iOS devices available,
https://alexandernaut.com/linktomidi/[Link to MIDI] seems to get good
reviews.

In any case, if you are generating MIDI clock directly, make sure you
have _only one trigger_ configured to send Clock on a given MIDI port,
or you will get crazy results. Since MIDI clock generation uses a
great deal of CPU to try to work around the above-mentioned issues,
you are probably better off only ever using it with a single trigger
anyway.

====

Link:: When this option is chosen, the trigger does not send MIDI
messages at all. Instead, when activated, it tries to synchronize an
Ableton Link session to the tempo and beat grid being established by
the player that it is watching. For this to work, you need to have
Carabiner installed, running, and connected, as described in
<<Link.adoc#,Working with Ableton Link>>. You can
also use expressions, as described <<Expressions.adoc#,below>>,
to send additional messages over MIDI or other communication
protocols. As with MIDI clock, you can <<Link.adoc#ignoring-track-bpm,ignore
the track tempo>> for special-case integrations.
+
[TIP]
====

If you are interested in synchronizing an Ableton Link session with
the tempo and beat grid of your CDJs, you no longer need to use
triggers to do so. With Carabiner running, you can use
<<Link.adoc#passive-sync,Passive Sync Mode>> to have Ableton Link
follow the CDJs, and you can even let Ableton Link be the Tempo Master
and control the tempo and beat sync of the CDJs using
<<Link.adoc#full-sync,Full Sync Mode>>.

====

Custom:: When this option is chosen, the trigger will not send any
messages on its own, and it is up to you to send them in code you
write in the trigger expressions, as described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#,Expressions>> section.
This gives you the most flexibility because in addition to MIDI
messages, you can send arbitrary UDP packets, HTTP requests, or
whatever you might need.

[[note-controller-spinner]]
=== Note/Controller Spinner

Found immediately to the right of the menu:Message[] Menu (unless Clock
or Link is chosen as the Message type), this field lets you set the MIDI
note number used for Note messages, or the controller number used for
Control Change messages. The value is also available to your trigger
expressions if they want to use it.

[[channel-spinner]]
=== Channel Spinner

For triggers sending MIDI (other than Beat Clock), this lets you
specify the MIDI channel on which messages are sent.

[[enabled-menu]]
=== Enabled Menu

The menu:Enabled[] menu controls when the trigger will respond to the
watched player starting or stopping playback.

image:EnabledMenu.png[Enabled Menu,814,287]

Always:: With this setting, the trigger is enabled until you disable
it.

Never:: With this setting, the trigger is disabled until you re-enable
it.

On-Air:: With this setting, the trigger is enabled whenever the
watched player reports that it is On the Air. (For that to work, the
player must be connected to a Nexus mixer, and must have the feature
turned on.)

Custom:: With this setting, the trigger is controlled by an Enabled
Filter, Clojure code that you write yourself. Whenever a status update
is received from any watched player, your expressions are evaluated.
If the last expression in your filter returns a `true` value, the
trigger will be enabled. This lets you apply sophisticated logic, like
enabling the trigger when a particular track is loaded into the
player, and it has reached a particular beat during playback.
Expressions are further explained in the
<<Expressions.adoc#,Expressions>> section.
If you choose `Custom` and have not yet written an Enabled Filter
expression, the expression editor will be opened to let you do that.

[[trigger-status]]
=== Trigger Status

To the right of the menu:Enabled[] menu there is a Trigger Status
indicator which shows whether the trigger is currently enabled (a
green circle) or disabled (a red circle with a slash). If the player
is currently playing, there is a filled circle inside the enabled
circle:

[width="50%",cols=".^,^.^",options="header"]
|===
|State
|Indicator

|Disabled, Not Playing
|image:Disabled.png[Disabled,52,52]

|Enabled, Not Playing
|image:Enabled.png[Enabled,52,52]

|Disabled, Playing
|image:DisabledPlaying.png[alt=Disabled, Playing,width=52,height=52]

|Enabled, Playing
|image:EnabledPlaying.png[alt=Enabled, Playing,width=52,height=52]

|===

[[context-menu]]
=== Context Menu

Each trigger row has a context menu attached to it, which can be
accessed by right-clicking (or control-clicking) anywhere on the row’s
background, but you can also open the context menu with a regular
mouse click on the button with a gear icon in it. Most of the menu is
devoted to editing various expressions to customize the trigger, as
described <<Expressions.adoc#,below>>. The gear icon next to an
expression will be filled in if that expression has a value, and the
gear in the button will be filled in if any expression associated with
the trigger has a value.

image:ContextMenu.png[Context Menu,285,265]

Below the expression editors, the menu:Simulate[] submenu allows you
to test your MIDI mappings and custom expressions as described in the
<<trigger-simulate,next section>>.

The menu:Inspect Expression Locals[] option allows you to explore any
values that have been set up by expressions in the Trigger to re-use
or share with each other. See <<Debugging.adoc#inspecting,Inspecting Locals
and Globals>> for more details.

After that are options with which you can import an exported trigger
configuration into the current trigger, or export the current trigger
configuration to a text file which can be imported into a different
trigger or shared with colleagues. Finally, the menu:Delete Trigger[]
option allows you to delete the trigger, unless it is the only
remaining trigger in the window.

[[trigger-simulate]]
=== Simulating Trigger Events

The menu:Simulate[] submenu allows you to pretend that an Activation,
Deactivation, Beat or Tracked Update event has occurred, and send the
corresponding MIDI messages and/or run the custom Expressions you have
configured for those situations. Choosing Activation or Deactivation
will send the MIDI note or CC message you have configured for the
trigger. Chosing any option will run the corresponding Expression if
you have created one.

image:TriggerSimulate.png[Trigger Simulate Menu,470,180]

[TIP]
====

This can allow you to set up MIDI mappings in other software, like
Ableton Live, that requires actual MIDI messages in order to learn
them, even when you are working in offline mode because you don't
currently have access to your CDJs.

====

The corresponding option will be disabled if there is no MIDI message
or Expression configured for that event.

Commit message:

Reduce MIDI clock sensitivity, and make configurable.

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/Triggers.adoc, after:

= Triggers
include::partial$PagePreamble.adoc[]
:page-toclevels: 3

Triggers were the first mechanism that existed for building
integrations in Beat Link Trigger, and the Triggers window is still
the primary one that opens when the program is first launched.
Triggers watch for specific activity on one or more CDJs, and send
things like MIDI or OSC messages in response. They can recognize
tracks and synchronize external systems to them using MIDI clock or
Ableton Link.


== Overview

Each row in the Trigger window defines a single trigger, which watches
a player or category of players, and can be configured to send
different messages in response to what the player is doing.

If this is the first time you have opened Beat Link Trigger, you will
see just one trigger containing default options.

image:FirstTrigger.png[First Trigger,900,294]

To create additional triggers you can choose menu:Triggers[New
Trigger], or type kbd:[⌘+T] (on the Mac) or kbd:[Ctrl+T] (on other
platforms). You can get back to this default state at any time by
choosing menu:Triggers[Clear Triggers].

image:TriggersMenu.png[Triggers Menu,355,225]

TIP: Triggers allow you to build all kinds of integrations with your
players, at a very low level. For the common case of wanting to make
something happen when a particular part of a specific track is played,
the new <<Shows.adoc#,Show Interface>> added in version 0.5 is much
easier and more convenient to use, so you may want to start with that!
And for an even faster way to get started, you may wan to explore the
integration example that shows how to use
<<Integration_MIDI_rekordbox.adoc#,rekordbox cue names>> to trigger
specific MIDI messages.

== Trigger Elements

Here are the sections of a trigger, and how they work:

=== Comment

The Comment field is a free-form text area you can use to describe the
purpose of the trigger, to remind you when you later come back to it.
Apart from the trigger index, a number by which Beat Link Trigger
identifies the trigger when it is reporting errors or naming related
windows (like expression editors, described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#,Expressions section>>), the comment takes up the entire
width of the first line of the trigger row.

[[watch-menu]]
=== Watch Menu

The menu:Watch[] menu tells the trigger what player(s) it should pay
attention to. It lets you choose Player&nbsp;1 through Player&nbsp;4,
as well as two dynamic choices.

image:WatchMenu.png[Watch Menu,840,294]

NOTE: If a player is chosen which is not currently present on the
network, the player will be reported “not found”, and the trigger will
not operate until either the player reappears, or a different player
is chosen. Of course when you are working in Offline mode, all players
will be missing and the trigger will simply say “Offline”.

Any Player:: If you choose to watch Any Player, then just as you would
expect, the trigger will respond to activity on any player in the
network. It will track whatever player seems “best” at the moment: If
there is an <<enabled-menu,Enabled condition>>
which causes the trigger to be enabled
for some players and not for others, it will watch the players that
enable it. Within that group, if some players are playing and others
are not, it will watch the ones that are playing. Finally, if there
are still multiple players to choose between, it will pick the
lowest-numbered one.

Master Player:: If you choose to watch the Master Player, the trigger
will focus on whichever player is the current Tempo (sync) Master.

[[player-status-summary]]
=== Player Status Summary

Right after the menu:Watch[] menu, the trigger row displays the player
number and latest status received from the watched player, if one was
found. The status includes the current state of the player,
information about the loaded track, the current effective BPM and
relative pitch, and the number of the current beat.

The track ID is followed by an indication in square brackets of the
player and slot (`usb`, `sd`, `cd`, or `rb` for rekordbox) from which the
track was loaded. That combination (ID number, source player and slot)
will be unique to that track until that media is unloaded and
replaced. IDs are not unique across players and slots.

These three pieces of information can be used to identify the track
and set up fairly sophisticated custom filter expressions, as
described in <<Matching.adoc#,Matching Tracks Manually>>, although the
<<Shows.adoc#,Show interface>> can do all that work for you now in
most scenarios. If one of your expressions recognizes a track, it can
tell Beat Link Trigger to display its name (or any other text you
like) instead of the normal track description by storing your desired
description string under the key `:track-description` in the trigger
`locals` map. Here is an example of what that could look like, when a
track named Apex has been recognized, and the string `Apex` has been
stored under `:track-description` in the trigger’s `locals`:

image:ApexRecognized.png[Track Apex Recognized,804,161]

[[metadata]]
==== Metadata

Now that Beat Link Trigger can request track metadata from the CDJs
in many different ways, that is most convenient and flexible way of
matching tracks, and it is always enabled.

When metadata is available for a track, the Player Status section
grows to two lines, and displays the track title and artist on the
second line, without any effort on the part of your trigger code:

image:MetadataStatus.png[Player Status with Metadata,794,166]

Your trigger can also change the content of the metadata line by
setting whatever value it wants under the key `:metadata-summary` in
the trigger’s `locals`. Metadata values available to your trigger
expressions include `track-artist`, `track-comment`, `track-genre`,
`track-key`, `track-label`, `track-length` (in seconds), and
`track-title`.

Powerful ways to take advantage of this metadata capability are
offered by the <<Shows.adoc#,Show interface>>, and the pieces you can
use to build your own custom solutions are explored in
<<Matching.adoc#,Matching Tracks Manually>>.

==== Playlist Position

If for some reason you don't want to see the information provided by
the track metadata, and are only interested in the track's position
within a playlist (or physical CD, if one is being played), you can
choose menu:Triggers[Default Track Description > playlist position].
This will display only the track index, which is 1 for the first
track, 2 for the second, and so on. To return to the full metadata
available, choose
menu:Triggers[Default Track Description > rekordbox id [player:slot]].

[[midi-output-menu]]
=== MIDI Output Menu

The menu:MIDI Output[] Menu lets you choose the MIDI device to which
the trigger will send messages. It will show all MIDI outputs
currently available on your system.

image:MidiMenu.png[MIDI Output Menu,810,281]

NOTE: If a MIDI Output is chosen which is no longer available on the
system (as shown in trigger 3 above), it will remain in that row’s
menu, but the Enabled section of the trigger will be replaced with the
message “Not found.” Once the output reappears, or a different output
is chosen, the trigger will become operational again.

[[message-menu]]
=== Message Menu

The menu:Message[] Menu determines what kind of MIDI message is sent by the
trigger.

image:MessageMenu.png[Message Menu,790,270]

Note:: With this setting, the trigger sends a Note On message, with
velocity 127 and the note number shown to the right of the menu, when
the watched player starts playing (as long as the trigger is enabled),
and a Note Off message when the watched player stops or the trigger is
disabled.

CC:: With this setting, the trigger sends a Control Change message,
with value 127 and the controller number shown to the right of the
menu, when the watched player starts playing (as long as the trigger
is enabled), and sends a CC with value 0 when the player stops or the
trigger is disabled.

Clock:: With this setting, the trigger sends MIDI Beat Clock messages
whenever the trigger is enabled, to synchronize the tempo of the
target device with the tempo reported by the watched player. If the
check box to the right of the menu is checked, it will either send a
Start or Continue message (as chosen in the following menu) when the
watched player starts playing, and if the Stop box is checked, it will
send a Stop message when the watched player stops. In special cases,
you can also <<Link.adoc#ignoring-track-bpm,ignore the track tempo>> and
respond only to pitch changes.
+
[WARNING]
====

MIDI Clock is an old, slow, and imprecise mechanism for synchronizing
tempo, especially when sent by a general-purpose operating system like
the one running Beat Link Trigger. If at all possible, you should use
Ableton Link instead, as described below. You will get _much_ better
results. If you have to talk to older hardware that can’t accept
Ableton Link, consider still sending Link from Beat Link Trigger, and
using a dedicated Ableton Link to MIDI bridge to talk to your older
hardware. If you have any iOS devices available,
https://alexandernaut.com/linktomidi/[Link to MIDI] seems to get good
reviews.

In any case, if you are generating MIDI clock directly, make sure you
have _only one trigger_ configured to send Clock on a given MIDI port,
or you will get crazy results. Since MIDI clock generation uses a
great deal of CPU to try to work around the above-mentioned issues,
you are probably better off only ever using it with a single trigger
anyway.

If you are sending MIDI clock directly from BLT, you can adjust the
sensitivity at which tempo changes are reflected. By default, to avoid
excessive twitchiness, the MIDI clock is only adjusted when the tempo
changes at least 0.01 beat per minute from what is being sent. For
example, to reduce the sensitiity by half, your expression could
include:

[source,clojure]
----
(reset! beat-link-trigger.triggers/midi-clock-sensitivity 0.02)
----

====

Link:: When this option is chosen, the trigger does not send MIDI
messages at all. Instead, when activated, it tries to synchronize an
Ableton Link session to the tempo and beat grid being established by
the player that it is watching. For this to work, you need to have
Carabiner installed, running, and connected, as described in
<<Link.adoc#,Working with Ableton Link>>. You can
also use expressions, as described <<Expressions.adoc#,below>>,
to send additional messages over MIDI or other communication
protocols. As with MIDI clock, you can <<Link.adoc#ignoring-track-bpm,ignore
the track tempo>> for special-case integrations.
+
[TIP]
====

If you are interested in synchronizing an Ableton Link session with
the tempo and beat grid of your CDJs, you no longer need to use
triggers to do so. With Carabiner running, you can use
<<Link.adoc#passive-sync,Passive Sync Mode>> to have Ableton Link
follow the CDJs, and you can even let Ableton Link be the Tempo Master
and control the tempo and beat sync of the CDJs using
<<Link.adoc#full-sync,Full Sync Mode>>.

====

Custom:: When this option is chosen, the trigger will not send any
messages on its own, and it is up to you to send them in code you
write in the trigger expressions, as described in the
<<Expressions.adoc#,Expressions>> section.
This gives you the most flexibility because in addition to MIDI
messages, you can send arbitrary UDP packets, HTTP requests, or
whatever you might need.

[[note-controller-spinner]]
=== Note/Controller Spinner

Found immediately to the right of the menu:Message[] Menu (unless Clock
or Link is chosen as the Message type), this field lets you set the MIDI
note number used for Note messages, or the controller number used for
Control Change messages. The value is also available to your trigger
expressions if they want to use it.

[[channel-spinner]]
=== Channel Spinner

For triggers sending MIDI (other than Beat Clock), this lets you
specify the MIDI channel on which messages are sent.

[[enabled-menu]]
=== Enabled Menu

The menu:Enabled[] menu controls when the trigger will respond to the
watched player starting or stopping playback.

image:EnabledMenu.png[Enabled Menu,814,287]

Always:: With this setting, the trigger is enabled until you disable
it.

Never:: With this setting, the trigger is disabled until you re-enable
it.

On-Air:: With this setting, the trigger is enabled whenever the
watched player reports that it is On the Air. (For that to work, the
player must be connected to a Nexus mixer, and must have the feature
turned on.)

Custom:: With this setting, the trigger is controlled by an Enabled
Filter, Clojure code that you write yourself. Whenever a status update
is received from any watched player, your expressions are evaluated.
If the last expression in your filter returns a `true` value, the
trigger will be enabled. This lets you apply sophisticated logic, like
enabling the trigger when a particular track is loaded into the
player, and it has reached a particular beat during playback.
Expressions are further explained in the
<<Expressions.adoc#,Expressions>> section.
If you choose `Custom` and have not yet written an Enabled Filter
expression, the expression editor will be opened to let you do that.

[[trigger-status]]
=== Trigger Status

To the right of the menu:Enabled[] menu there is a Trigger Status
indicator which shows whether the trigger is currently enabled (a
green circle) or disabled (a red circle with a slash). If the player
is currently playing, there is a filled circle inside the enabled
circle:

[width="50%",cols=".^,^.^",options="header"]
|===
|State
|Indicator

|Disabled, Not Playing
|image:Disabled.png[Disabled,52,52]

|Enabled, Not Playing
|image:Enabled.png[Enabled,52,52]

|Disabled, Playing
|image:DisabledPlaying.png[alt=Disabled, Playing,width=52,height=52]

|Enabled, Playing
|image:EnabledPlaying.png[alt=Enabled, Playing,width=52,height=52]

|===

[[context-menu]]
=== Context Menu

Each trigger row has a context menu attached to it, which can be
accessed by right-clicking (or control-clicking) anywhere on the row’s
background, but you can also open the context menu with a regular
mouse click on the button with a gear icon in it. Most of the menu is
devoted to editing various expressions to customize the trigger, as
described <<Expressions.adoc#,below>>. The gear icon next to an
expression will be filled in if that expression has a value, and the
gear in the button will be filled in if any expression associated with
the trigger has a value.

image:ContextMenu.png[Context Menu,285,265]

Below the expression editors, the menu:Simulate[] submenu allows you
to test your MIDI mappings and custom expressions as described in the
<<trigger-simulate,next section>>.

The menu:Inspect Expression Locals[] option allows you to explore any
values that have been set up by expressions in the Trigger to re-use
or share with each other. See <<Debugging.adoc#inspecting,Inspecting Locals
and Globals>> for more details.

After that are options with which you can import an exported trigger
configuration into the current trigger, or export the current trigger
configuration to a text file which can be imported into a different
trigger or shared with colleagues. Finally, the menu:Delete Trigger[]
option allows you to delete the trigger, unless it is the only
remaining trigger in the window.

[[trigger-simulate]]
=== Simulating Trigger Events

The menu:Simulate[] submenu allows you to pretend that an Activation,
Deactivation, Beat or Tracked Update event has occurred, and send the
corresponding MIDI messages and/or run the custom Expressions you have
configured for those situations. Choosing Activation or Deactivation
will send the MIDI note or CC message you have configured for the
trigger. Chosing any option will run the corresponding Expression if
you have created one.

image:TriggerSimulate.png[Trigger Simulate Menu,470,180]

[TIP]
====

This can allow you to set up MIDI mappings in other software, like
Ableton Live, that requires actual MIDI messages in order to learn
them, even when you are working in offline mode because you don't
currently have access to your CDJs.

====

The corresponding option will be disabled if there is no MIDI message
or Expression configured for that event.
